	A DROP-IN CFC-12 REPLACEMENT FOR AUTOMOTIVE AIRCONDITIONING

			          by 

			   George H. Goble
			   286 W. Navajo
			   W. Lafayette, IN 47906




				ABSTRACT

	There currently exists a large number (millions) of automobiles 
with air conditioning systems designed to use CFC-12 as the refrigerant
along with plans to produce such systems into the 1992-1995 time frame.
During the 1992-1995 period, new production will transition to HFC-134a
refrigerant based systems or other technologies which offer zero or little
ozone depletion.  CFC-12 based systems will finally cease production
around 1995, but they will have a lifetime of about 10 years, extending
the need for CFC-12, or a substitute until the year 2005 or so.
This paper will present a ternary blend of refrigerants which may be
able to be used as a transition refrigerant in CFC-12 designed automotive
air conditioners until HFC-134a and other technologies are able to take over.
Performance, oil miscibility, flammability, toxicity, and testing with a 
commercial dehydrant/leak sealant will be discussed.


                             INTRODUCTION

	A ternary blend of HCFC-22, HCFC-142b (chlorodifluoroethane), and 
small amount of R-600a (isobutane) has been found to provide acceptable 
operation on several automobile airconditioning systems designed for use
with CFC-12. Some capacity increase has been noted in most systems, probably
from the blend being non-azeotropic, leading to better utilization of the
condenser and evaporator [1].  This blend features 95% less ozone depletion 
potential (ODP) than does CFC-12 (ODP of 0.05 vs CFC-12 with ODP 1.0).
This blend is 55% HCFC-22, 37% HCFC-142b, and 8% isobutane by weight and is
compatible with mineral oils currently used in CFC-12 systems.

	Testing began in August 1990 in two vehicles, a 1990 Pontiac
Transsport, and a 1978 Datsun 810.  A 1979 Grand Prix was added in
October 1990.  By July 1992, some 500 vehicles were running this blend.
Only one failure has occurred. A 1984 Buick Century had a DA-6 compressor
fail. The tear down of the compressor revealed the thin Teflon piston
rings had broken, and fragments had lodged in the valves, holding
them open.  Local mechanics state this is an extremely common failure
mode for this compressor (with R-12), and one mechanic reported he
changed 38 DA-6 compressors in a two month period during the summer
of 1991 which had failed for the same reasons.  The remaining intact
Teflon piston rings, did not appear to be swollen or affected by
this blend. Currently, there is no reason to suspect this blend
as being the cause of this failure.

	The first two vehicles were instrumented with gauge manifolds (all
copper lines) in the passenger compartment along with thermocouple probes,
so temperatures and pressures could be monitored in real life driving 
situations.  The 1990 Transsport, ran the standard CFC-12 charge for the 
first year of its life, it then was charged with the ternary blend.  After 
8 months no loss of charge was noted from performance and pressures.  
Refrigerant has remained clear and dry as observed in an installed liquid 
line sight glass.




			PERFORMANCE

	Testing of this blend has shown significant (around 4F-13F) 
decrease in discharge air temperatures at ambient temperatures over 80F
over that of what CFC-12 did.  Condensation and evaporation of the refrigerant 
appear to occur over a larger band or "glide", thus achieving better 
utilization of the evaporator and condenser.  At lower ambients, the 
capacity (cooling) of this blend drops off to approximately that of CFC-12,
mostly from the reduction in head pressure.  Different systems perform 
differently. CCOT (orifice) systems generally show more increase in
capacity than do expansion valve systems. Compressor discharge temperatures
did run slightly higher than with R-12.  Hot ambients (90-100F) days
produced discharge temperatures in the 180F range.  The same systems
had R-12 discharge temperatures in the 160F range (average city driving).
Even though slightly higher, the compressor discharge line temperatures are
still low enough to prevent refrigerant/oil breakdown.

			OIL MISCIBILITY

	In addition to refrigeration effect, the isobutane makes this
blend miscible in standard mineral oils used in CFC-12 systems.  Neither
HCFC-22 nor HCFC-142b by itself are very miscible with mineral oils used in 
CFC-12 systems at evaporator temperatures (32F). The "Upflow" evaporators and 
large diameter suction lines commonly found in R-12 systems may cause problems 
with oil return to the compressor, resulting in compressor failure, when the 
refrigerant is not miscible in the oil being used [2].

This blend stayed dissolved in oil (20% oil) by volume, at 32F (approximate 
evaporation temperature in auto A/C systems) with Suniso 5GS (525 SUS viscosity)
mineral oil of the type used in auto A/C systems. Suniso 3GS (150 SUS viscosity)
mineral oil (naphthanic) and Virginia KMP 150 viscosity mineral oil (paraffinic)
also stayed dissolved in refrigerant at 32F.  Both 150 viscosity oils were 
completely dissolved at 0F.  Around 10% (by volume) of Suniso 525 SUS viscosity
oil dissolved in the refrigerant at 0F.  This 525 viscosity oil is normally used
in auto A/C systems which only operate at 32F or higher.  Typically, around 10%
by volume, oil is circulated with the refrigerant in auto A/C systems.


			FLAMMABILITY

	The current blend could not be ignited, even after a 4 month leak 
down test (over 1/2 the charge had been lost).  It should be noted that even 
CFC-12 can be "flammable", when it contains dissolved oil, and a rapid 
release occurs.  The oil atomizes into a fine mist and can be ignited.
It has been reported that HCFC-22/HCFC-142b mixtures are nonflammable
up to concentrations of 68% weight of HCFC-142b [3].

	Many "nonflammable" refrigerants, which contain hydrogen atoms,
can become flammable if mixed with large amounts of air under pressure.
Such examples include HCFC-22 and HFC-134a.  For this reason, this blend
and other refrigerants and blends containing hydrogen atoms should not
be diluted with air, and pressurized (such as for leak testing). Diluting
the refrigerant with dry nitrogen is ok.

	Being a non-azeotrope, this blend will change composition during
the leaking process.  Recharging (topping off), systems with partial
charges is prohibited.  The entire charge must first be removed, and a 
recharge done with new (non recycled) material.  Repeated topping off of 
leaking systems could lead to this blend becoming flammable, thus the 
requirement of always doing a full recharge with new material.  This 
requirement should not impact automotive air conditioning severely. This 
difficulty rapidly becomes prohibitive in large commercial systems, where 
topping off leaking systems is the normal mode of operation.  Non-azeotropic 
blends will be cumbersome in anything except automotive and small systems
due to the requirement that the whole charge be removed.  Reconstitution
of leaking non-azeotropic blends to known composition is beyond the scope
of almost all service technicians.


				TOXICITY

	Unlike the new generation of "hyperfluorinated" refrigerants, all 
of the ingredients of this blend have existed for decades and their properties
are well known. HCFC-142b is commercially available in large quantities.


			LEAKING AND LEAK SEALING IN CARS

	It has been observed, that a large percentage of older (4 years or 
older) cars, seem to have continual slow refrigerant leaking problems.  Even 
when the leaks are identified and repaired, many are low on charge by the 
following summer.  New leaks form, and/or hose diffusion may be occurring and 
may be undetectable due to the large surface areas or difficult to access areas.
Airconditioning service shops, often can only repair "obvious" leaks or change 
"bad" components.  Some leaks have been observed to be temperature sensitive
(e.g. only leaks in the winter when parts contract) Many cars are continually 
recharged at 2 month to 1 year intervals, since the leaks are impossible to 
find/repair.  Many owners of older cars are not willing to pay the cost of an 
entire new system being installed (often over $1000), just because the leaks 
cannot be found and repaired. State laws are being enacted (such as Florida,
7/1/91), which prohibit automobiles from leaving a service shop unless the
leak is repaired. If the leak is not repaired, then the CFC-12 must be
removed from the system before releasing the car to the owner.  Mechanics
have reported to the author that they have encountered certain brands of
connectors which always leak small amounts of charge, even if they are new
and this has led to much frustration as they cannot be properly "fixed".

	A commercial dehydrant/sealant, "DRY-PAK" and "CRYO-SILANE" made
by Cryo-Chem International [4], have been tested with this blend at higher
dilutions than their normal product.  System drying and sealing of leaks
has been observed to be satisfactory for the three week to 1 year "leak rates".
This also stopped diffusion through hoses and helped prevent composition changes
in the blend due to leaking.  Elimination of constant recharging reduces the 
"effective" (per car) ODP further.  If a car "saves" five additional recharges 
in its lifetime, then the effective ODP becomes 0.01 for a 99% reduction in 
ozone depletion from CFC-12.  The sealant cost per car works out to be less than
$20.  Shaft seal leaks are not repaired, but they are reduced.  Use of this 
sealant requires the system be "dry", with no significant moisture trapped in 
the drier.  The sealant manufacturer requires that the drier be changed
prior to use.  Experience has found this to be true.  Using this blend
[with sealant] on "wet" systems (without changing the drier), resulted in 
the sealant being neutralized and no sealing action.  No harm was caused 
be this action other than sealant being wasted.  The systems continued 
to perform (and leak) normally.  Changing the drier and orifice are always
good refrigeration practices. Old driers can have their desiccant bags
break, clogging the system with clay from the desiccant binder.

				PROCEDURES

	Being a non-azeotropic blend, certain procedures must be followed
to prevent composition changes.  The most obvious is that the system must
be "liquid charged", carefully to avoid slugging the compressor.  Systems
with partially leaked charges, should be discharged before recharging, to
achieve a known composition.  This problem is greatly reduced by the addition
of the above sealant. Under the "1990 Clean Air Act", this blend cannot
be vented to the environment after certain dates (mostly in 1992), depending
on the type of service (mobile airconditioning, fixed, size of service shop,
etc).  It can be "recovered" (pumped into a tank) with CFC-12 recovery
equipment and returned to the manufacturer to be reclaimed to new standards
or be destroyed, it cannot be reused on site. 


				CONCLUSIONS

	The author believes this blend can be used to keep existing and 
future CFC-12 automotive airconditioning systems running until they reach 
their normal end of life.  This blend may take some pressure off the race to 
get HFC-134a, its complex lubricants and field procedures operational, for 
retrofitting existing CFC-12 systems which fail in the field.  Being a blend,
"custom" refrigerants can be made for extra performance in hot humid climates
with minor system modifications (a high pressure cutout switch). Testing
is currently ongoing in this area.  It is possible to deliver subfreezing
air continuously at ambients of 100F (highway driving).

Patent pending.


				REFERENCES

[1]	Kruse, H. "The advantages of non-azeotropic refrigerant mixtures
	for heat pump applications" Int. J. Refrig. 1981 vol 4 May pp 119-125

[2]	ASHRAE, 1984 Systems Handbook, pp 29.11

[3]	Kuijpers, L., Miner, S., "The CFC issue and the CFC forum at the
	1988 Purdue IIR conference", Int. J. Refrig. 1989 vol 12 May pp. 123

[4]	Private communication with Packo, J., Cryo-Chem Intl. Inc.



