

GHG-X4/AutoFrost(tm)/Chill-it(tm)  R-12 Replacement Q & A's

Q.  What is GHG-X4 refrigerant?  AutoFrost(tm)? Chill-it(tm)?
A.  GHG-X4 is a blend of refrigerants R-22, R-142b, R-124, and a small 
amount (4%) of R-600a (isobutane), that is a drop-in substitute for R-12 in 
most stationary and automotive A/C systems.  The 4% isobutane aids in 
returning the mineral oil to the compressor and is such a small amount, that 
GHG-X4 refrigerant stays nonflammable, even after worst case leaking and 
recharging.  No oil change is needed.  AutoFrost(tm) and Chill-it(tm) are two 
tradenames for GHG-X4 refrigerant.  They are all the same refrigerant.  
GHG-X4 and AutoFrost(tm) are marketed by Monroe Air Tech (1-800-424-
3836).  Chill-it(tm) is marketed by  McMullen Oil Products (1-888-7-MCCOOL).

Q.  Why does this refrigerant have to be charged as a liquid?
A.  This refrigerant and all other zeotropic blends (R-400 series) must be 
charged as a liquid to prevent change in composition.  GHG-
X4/AutoFrost(tm)/Chill-it(tm) and R-406A are supplied in 25 lb cylinders which 
contain a "dip tube" to withdraw the product as liquid without inverting the 
cylinder.

A good charging procedure,  starting with the system in a vacuum, and the 
engine off, is to admit about 1/2 to 2/3 of the required charge into the system 
high side in liquid state.  Start the system up, and VERY SLOWLY   put in 
the rest of the charge into the low side as liquid, with the system running.  A 
good starting point, is to see what the initial suction (lowside) pressure is 
upon starting up the system (it will be lower than normal), and VERY 
SLOWLY "crack open" the low side charging manifold valve so that the low 
side pressure rises by about 10 PSI to bring in the rest of the liquid charge.  
The "barely open" manifold low side charging valve allows the refrigerant to 
boil off in the hoses and prevent compressor damage.  The idea behind the 
initial charge into the high side, is to provide good oil return to the 
compressor during startup.

If you still feel you must charge as vapor, you can first charge the required 
amount, as liquid, from the refrigerant supply cylinder into a metered 
charging cylinder such as a DIAL-A-CHARGE(tm).  You may then vapor 
charge THE ENTIRE CHARGE from the charging cylinder into the car.

Q.  How much GHG-X4 or R-406A do I need to charge in?
A.  If you are using scales to weigh it, then use 80% of the R-12 weight 
amount.  If you are using a liquid charging cylinder, such as a DIAL-A-
CHARGE(tm), use the same liquid amount as you would R-12.


Q.  Can I use automatic charging equipment with GHG-X4 or R-406A?
A.  It depends.  Older type automatic charging equipment, which uses a 
FLOWMETER to meter in R-12 at a fixed rate should be avoided.  Newer 
type equipment, which contains a set of scales to weigh in a measured 
charge (remember to only use 80% as much GHG-X4 as you would R-12) to 
a holding tank before charging should work ok.  Automatic charging stations 
which bring in a measured AMOUNT of liquid into a holding cylinder and you 
set the amount by watching the liquid level (like a large coffee urn), should 
also work ok.  Remember to use the same liquid (level or volume) here as 
you would do for R-12.

Also, most R-12 automatic charging equipment withdraws the product 
(R-12) from a 30 pound cylinder as a liquid, and the R-12 cylinder must be 
mounted upside down when attached to charging equipment.  GHG-X4 and 
R-406A 25 pound refrigerant cylinders contain a "dip tube", much like a can 
of spray paint, such that you get liquid out when the can is upright.  GHG-X4 
and R-406A cylinders MUST BE INSTALLED UPRIGHT when used in 
charging equipment that is designed to have R-12 cylinders installed upside 
down.  You may have to lengthen or splice in a small piece of hose if 
needed.

Also, use only automatic charging equipment, that withdraws the product 
from the refrigerant supply cylinder as a liquid (R-12 cylinders will need to 
be upside down, but R-406A and GHG-X4 cylinders need to be installed 
upright to insure removal of product as a liquid)

Q.  What about using the ole "feel the evaporator outlet line" and 
charge "until it gets cold" method of charging?
A.  Blends such as GHG-X4 and R-406A sometimes need two or three 
minutes (at idle speed) to become thoroughly mixed throughout the system.  
Often,  when the evaporator outlet line begins to get cold, the system will be 
overcharged.  Solution:  as you near the end of charging, stop charging for 2 
or 3 minutes and let the system continue to run at idle before performing 
further charging or diagnosis.  If a large part of the initial charge is dumped 
into a suction (low side) accumulator, such as on a typical GM CCOT 
system, the higher boiling components of the blend will hang around in the 
accumulator longer than R-12 would.  Please take an extra two or 3 minutes 
to let the blends mix completely before proceeding.

Q.  Does this refrigerant need to be recovered (captured)?
A.  Yes.  Under US EPA rules and regulations, all CFC, HCFC, HFC 
refrigerants and just about anything else needs to be recovered and not be 
vented to the atmosphere.  Refrigerants which require recovery are R-12, R-
22, R-134a, R-406A, GHG-X4 and all the other current "legal" R-12 
replacements at the current time.  Only refrigerants which may be vented 
are air (nitrogen), water, CO2, ammonia and pure hydrocarbons (such as 
propane/butane blends) according to US EPA rules.  You are not likely to 
encounter any of these, as they (except for hydrocarbons) will not work or 
will damage the system.  If you encounter a refrigerant composed of 100% 
hydrocarbons, vent it outside, carefully, they are extremely flammable.

Q.  What are EPA retrofit fittings?
A.  The US EPA is requiring special "uniquely threaded" fittings to be 
attached to all R-12 service ports, in a "permanent - non removable" fashion.  
These fittings provide threads which are unique to each type of alternative 
refrigerant.  These fittings are required by law (only for the automotive 
sector, does not apply to stationary equipment) for refrigerants which have 
completed the entire EPA approval process and are listed as "acceptable" 
for mobile A/C.  For refrigerants, which have reached the "Legal-to-sell" 
date, but are still in the EPA approval process, the fittings are not required 
by law, but the EPA, Monroe Air Tech, and McMullen Oil Products 
STRONGLY ENCOURAGE their use, to prevent accidental mixing with 
recovered R-12.  Systems charged with alternative refrigerants MUST be 
properly labeled on the firewall, and preferably also tagged on the charging 
port.



Retrofit fittings for GHG-X4 (same as AutoFrost and Chill-it) are 
manufactured by the Schrader Corporation and cost less than $2 each to 
make.  Fittings and adapters to standard R-12 threads may be obtained 
from your refrigerant supplier.

Q.  What about "topping off" systems low on  charge?
A.  Current EPA rules only permit "topping off" with the same type of 
refrigerant which already installed in an automotive system.  For systems 
charged with zeotropic refrigerants, such as GHG-X4, R-406A, or almost all 
other "blends", the recommended procedure is to first remove (recover) the 
charge and recharge with fresh virgin material.  As zeotropic blends vapor 
leak, they change composition (pressures get lower), and a recharge will 
result in lower pressures, and some reduced capacity.  However, many 
technicians have topped off both R-406A and GHG-X4 systems and report 
no problems.  The property which makes GHG-X4 or R-406A change 
composition (called fractionation) as it vapor leaks, is also responsible for a 
big performance gain over single component refrigerants such as R-12 or R-
134a.  Zeotropic refrigerants exhibit a temperature "glide" (about 16 degrees 
F for GHG-X4 and R-406A), which causes the refrigerant to boil (evaporate) 
or condense over a range of temperatures instead of a single temperature, 
thus increasing the heat rejecting capacity of the condenser and increasing 
cooling performance over R-12 and R-134a.

Q.  What about topping off cars with R-12 in them with GHG-X4?
A.  This is illegal in the US under current EPA rules.  One can garner a 
$25,000 fine for charging illegal refrigerants or mixing refrigerants in a car.

Q.  What is R-406A and how is it different than GHG-X4?
A.  R-406A is very similar to GHG-X4.  It consists of R-22, R-142b, and a 
small amount of isobutane (to provide good mineral oil return).  R-406A is 
nonflammable as shipped.  If large amounts of refrigerant are lost from 
vapor leaking, R-406A may become weakly flammable.  In this state (called 
worst case fractionation), R-406A has no "flash point" and jets of it escaping 
from a system or cylinder cannot be ignited with a propane torch.  If one 
manages to obtain several ounces of liquid refrigerant in the worst case 
state, and put it in a jar or pour it onto the ground, then a propane torch can 
ignite it.  It typically burns with a 2 or 3 inch high flame and typically self 
extinguishes in a second or two.  Due to the "no flash point", the entire spill 
usually will not ignite, but remain localized until it goes out by itself.  
ASHRAE has given R-406A a safety classification of "A1/A2", which means 
"lower toxicity group / nonflammable" as formulated and "lower toxicity / 
lower flammability group" after worst case fractionation.  A video tape may 
be obtained at no charge from Monroe Air Tech, 1-800-424-3836 showing 
safety testing of R-406A.  Safety testing excepts and other information on 
GHG-X4 and R-406A is available on the internet World Wide Web at  
HTTP://worldserver.com/R-406A.

GHG-X4 is basically R-406A with a small amount of R-124 added to 
suppress the weak flammability at the end of an R-406A vapor leakout. 
GHG-X4 (without the oil) never goes flammable, even after leaking and 
recharging.  Suction pressures are the same as R-406A, and the head 
pressure will be slightly higher, about 5 PSIG higher at 130 degrees F 
condensing temperature.

Q.  Do the  hoses, driers or the oil need changing?
A.  In general, no.  Most American built cars have used the nylon lined 
"barrier" hoses for years.  These are fine for GHG-X4, and R-406A.  Some 
real old cars and foreign cars and cars with "port of entry" add-on A/C 
systems may have "nitrile" rubber hoses, which can leak R-134a and all 
currently legal alternative refrigerants at a higher rate.  It is therefore 
recommended that nitrile rubber hoses be replaced.  All current replacement 
hoses are now of the barrier type.  

Current R-12 cars use a drier desiccant called "XH-5".  This has shown no 
problems with R-406A or GHG-X4.  R-134a (newly built or retrofitted) cars 
may contain a desiccant called "XH-7".  XH-7 should not be used with 
R-406A, GHG-X4 or other alternatives containing HCFCs.  The best 
desiccant to use, if you have a choice when replacing the drier during 
servicing is to use "XH-9" as that will have better moisture capacity and will 
work with all the alternatives and R-134a as well.

Unless the oil is contaminated by a system failure, it does not need to be 
changed.  GHG-X4 and R-406A work fine with the standard mineral oils 
(usually 525 viscosity) used in R-12 systems.  If you change the oil, replace 
it with the same mineral oil as was in the R-12 system.  Alkylbenzene based 
(AB) oils also work fine.

Do not use GHG-X4 or R-406A with PolyalkyleneGlycol (PAG) or 
PolyolEster (POE) oils which are found in new and retrofitted R-134a 
systems.  the HCFCs in GHG-X4 and R-406A will destroy the PAG oil and 
sometimes break down the POE oil.  The POE oil may also absorb 
excessive refrigerant and become "too thin" to lubricate properly, causing 
compressor failures.

Q.  Compressor suppliers (automakers) are sometimes shipping 
compressors precharged with PAG oil, what do I do?
A.  Don't put R-406A or GHG-X4 into one of those or it will probably fail.  
Local technicians have had good luck by ordering compressors "dry" (no 
oil), and then charging mineral oil (on the bench, while turning by hand).  
Another alternative which local technicians have tried is to take the PAG 
oiled compressor and purge it with mineral oil on the bench while turning it 
over 30 or 40 times by hand to work out almost all of the PAG oil.  Both dry 
and formerly-PAG charged compressors are now running in the local area 
for over 2 years in service with R-12 and mineral oil.  Local experience has 
shown that the Ford FX-15 compressor will fail in short order if charged with 
the standard weight (525) mineral oil (R-12 refrigerant).  However, a thinner 
mineral oil, such as Ford part number YN9 has proven to be successful with 
the FX-15 and R-12.

Q.  What do I do with used refrigerant?
A.  The best approach is to "recover"  (capture it) into a standard gray and 
yellow refrigerant recovery cylinder and send it to a reclaimer to be 
reclaimed to new refrigerant purity and composition.  Some technicians may 
wish to "recycle" (clean it locally).  If this is done, one must make a 
"pressure-temperature" check to insure the composition hasn't changed too 
much from leaking.  Let a cylinder stabilize overnight, to some known 
temperature, say, 70 degrees F.  Connect up a gauge and measure the 
pressure.  Look up the correct pressure on a pressure-temperature chart (on 
the bottom of the 25lb cylinder).  If the pressure is within 2 or 3 PSI of the 
listed pressure, you should be OK.  If the pressure is low, then the 
composition has changed from vapor leaking.  The easiest thing to do with 
changed-composition refrigerant is to return it for reclaiming.

By far the SAFEST and least likely to cause problems method for dealing 
with USED refrigerant (from cars which come to your shop), is to RECOVER 
it into a cylinder and ship it to a reclaimer.  You have no idea what is in the 
system without using expensive and not always accurate refrigerant 
identification equipment.  The owner or other shops may have charged in a 
pound or two of R-134a, R-22, propane, illegal blends (often 
propane/isobutane/butane blends), smuggled-in refrigerant of questionable 
purity, or other legal blends and not properly labeled it.  All this stuff, when 
mixed with R-12 will usually work most of the time, provided it is not full of 
water and air.

After doing an evacuation of the system, charge with only virgin (new) 
refrigerant or good refrigerant of known quality.  If you have to then remove 
the charge to do more work on the system, you may then want to "recycle" 
and reuse this charge you just put in, provided there was no excessive loss 
of it due to vapor leaking.

Check with your supplier, call Monroe Air Tech (1-800-424-3836) or 
McMullen Oil Products (1-888-7-MCCOOL) to find out names of reclaimers 
who will take back used R-406A and GHG-X4.

One such reclaimer is:

Refrigerant Reclaim, Inc.
122 Old Stagecoach Rd
Dumfries, VA 22026-2202
(703) 441-0029

Another, legal lower cost alternative to the high price of refrigerant recovery 
cylinders, is to use NEW BBQ grill propane tanks.  These are DOT rated at 
240 PSI and are legal for shipping R-12 and similar pressure alternatives.  A 
20lb BBQ grill propane tank typically may be purchased for about $15 at 
places such as Sam's Club or other wholesale buyers clubs.  Be sure you 
only use NEW tanks.  If propane was ever in the tank, it will "stink" for 
eternity from the mercaptain odorant.  The reclaimer will get extremely mad 
at you and you will have to pay upwards of $10/lb to have the refrigerant 
burned if you do not use a new tank.  Go to a local welding supply and buy a 
CGA-510 "POL" adapter which connects to the propane tank and gives you 
1/4" MPT (male pipe threads).  Go to a refrigeration supply and buy a 1/4" 
FPT (female pipe threads) to 1/4 SAE flare adapter.  Screw the flare adapter 
on the pipe threads, using Teflon tape on the pipe threads.  The 20lb 
propane tank will hold 37 lbs of GHG-X4 or R-406A (the 80% fill level).  
Larger, 100lb propane tanks may be purchased new for around $80, and 
they hold 185 lbs of refrigerant.  If you do use propane tanks, be sure to 
contact your reclaimer first to make sure it is ok with him.  Contact your 
reclaimer or refrigerant supplier for proper shipping instructions on used 
refrigerant.  A $10 or so "hazmat" fee (all compressed gasses are shipped 
as hazardous) will usually be charged in addition to the normal shipping 
charges.  The tank will have to be properly marked for shipment and need 
"diamond" stickers, and other labels.  For a $15 tank, you can tell the 
reclaimer to just "keep it" or sell it or throw it away, since it is cheaper to buy 
a new tank than to ship the old one back.

Q.  Can I use R-406A or GHG-X4 in a R-134a system?
A.  NO! NO! NO! The PAG or POE oils in the R-134a sysem will be 
destroyed by R-406A or GHG-X4.  If POE oils are used, they also may fail 
or be thinned too much to properly lubricate.


Q.  What kind of pressures do I see with GHG-X4 or R-406A?
A.  Pressures are very close on the suction side (low side).  Head pressures 
will usually be within plus or minus 15% of the R-12 pressures depending on 
condenser design and airflow and ambient temperature.  A properly charged 
system with R-406A or GHG-X4 will usually have lower head pressures on 
the highway than R-12.

Q.  Why are the head pressures very high on a few systems when I 
charge until the sight glass goes clear?

A. Sometimes systems may  be encountered, that may have small 
condensers or condensers with poor air flow, such as on farm 
equipment, and adding enough charge to "clear the bubbles" will 
cause very high head pressures of 400 PSIG or higher.  On these 
types of systems, it is normal to have some bubbles in the liquid 
line sight glass.  Remove some charge slowly from the high side 
while running (to remove liquid) into recovery equipment.  The 
head pressure should come down.  When initially charging, watch 
the head pressure, and stop charging when it looks correct.  The 
"correct" value may be as low as 120 PSIG on a cool (65F) day or 
as high as 300 PSIG on a very hot day.  Dirt plugging and the 
condenser fan arrangement/air flow also affect the head pressure.

The high side pressure is determined by the temperature of the 
condenser, not the total amount of charge.  A system correctly 
charged may have a 120 PSIG head on a cool day, but be around 300 
PSIG on a very hot day, with no change in the charge amount.  
Overcharging a system, will cause the condenser to partially fill 
with liquid, impairing it from removing heat, and the condenser 
temperature and (head pressure) will drastically rise.  This is 
true for any refrigerant.


