
W E L C O M E
T O
K I S S

Kangerlussuaq International Science Support


The information available here is targetted at researchers using the
science support facility KISS in Kangerlussuaq, West Greenland.

-------------------

A booklet (with photos, maps etc.) about KISS is available, free of charge,
from the Danish Polar Center in Copenhagen, at KISS, or at the Airport
Administration office in Kangerlussuaq.


If you have comments to the contents of the booklet or suggestions to
include new information, you are most welcome to contact the Danish Polar
Center, attn.: Henning Thing, phone: +45 32 88 01 20, fax: +45 32 88 01 01,
or use e-mail at the address "hth@pops.dpc.min.dk".

-------------------
Compiled and edited by Henning Thing, the Danish Polar Center.
This edition released July 1995

-------------------

INTRODUCTION
Kangerlussuaq has a long tradition as an important base for fielding
geophysical and glaciological research projects, but so far the region has
had only limited activities within the life science disciplines. The area
lies on the edge of the Polar Cap Zone and the Auroral Zone. It is
therefore of particular interest to scientists studying elements relating
to the ionosphere and the magnetosphere as well as the lower and upper
atmosphere.

The proximity of the Inland Ice has a significant effect on the climatic
regime for the living resources and further it presents unique logistic
opportunities for studies on the Ice Sheet proper, the edge zone, and
periglacial geomorphology.

KISS and the Kangerlussuaq region is thus the ideal site for field courses
in polar biology, Arctic ecology, geomorphological processes and geology.

KISS offers year-round modern facilities for researchers in a comfortable
building at a daily fee of 150 DKK. This price is based on the use of own
sleeping bag, linen and towels. Room service (in part or in full) can be
supplied at a modest additional cost. The 700 m2 accommodation area
includes 23 single or double rooms (20 m2), kitchens, lounges, laundry,
showers and toilets.

At the 700 m2 ground floor researchers can access wet and dry labs, working
rooms, storage rooms, drying room, lounges, kitchens, workshop, telefax,
local and long-distance telephone calls, photocopier, PC and laser printer,
as well as Internet e-mail (late in 1995). There is space available for
your own specialized equipment or labs in the building at a nominal cost.
In the KISS building all rooms and labs are equipped with both 115V and
208V / 60Hz outlets

The road system around the airport is quite extensive - for Greenland
standard. Leading East to the edge of the Inland Ice is a 13 km dirt track
drivable for 4x4 vehicles; to the West an asphalt road leads a similar
stretch to the harbour at the fjord. It is worth noting that Kangerlussuaq
is an airport isolated from the coastal towns and hamlets. It does not hold
a traditional Greenlandic society but a population of c. 350 persons
dedicated to run the airport and associated facilities (e.g. KISS).

At the KISS ground floor rooms or office space can be rented on a long-term
basis so you have the opportunity to establish your own project office. The
KISS manager can be hired to handle logistics for projects not physically
present in Kangerlussuaq but which would like to draw on the services
available here.

Kangerlussuaq also hosts a modern conference center capable of
accommodating up to 250 people. The conference facilities and prices are
very competitive so you should consider placing your next scientific
conference or symposium in Greenland.


BOOKING
All scientists engaged in research activities qualify to use KISS as the
home base during their stay in Kangerlussuaq.

The Danish Polar Center has been delegated the responsibility to handle all
bookings for KISS thereby securing that only scientists and students
engaged in research activities are allowed to use the facilities at KISS.

Your stay at KISS must therefore be booked prior to your arrival in
Kangerlussuaq through the Danish Polar Center in Copenhagen (address:
Strandgade 100 H, DK-1401 Copenhagen K; telephone: +45 32 88 01 20;
telefax: +45 32 88 01 01; e-mail: hth@pops.dpc.min.dk). NOTE: during the
high season, i.e. June through August, you must book through direct contact
to the on-site KISS Manager (phone: +299 11107, 6452  or fax: +299 11472).

Your booking will be forwarded to the KISS management. Should you encounter
any initial problems locally in Kangerlussuaq concerning registration of
your booking of accommodations at KISS, please contact the Danish Polar
Center right away.

Renting of vehicles, equipment, separate office space, workshop,
communication hardware, room service, etc., should all be finalized locally
between you and the manager - even though you have originally indicated
your requests in the booking form.


KEYS
If you arrive at Kangerlussuaq in the peak season (i.e. June through
August) you should register as a KISS user with the manager in the KISS
building (phone: 6452; room 101 in building 662). During the low season
(i.e.  September through May) you should register with Ms. Mette
Bjerregaard in the Airport Administration building ("Block V", entrance 2).
Upon registration you will get the keys for your room(s), the current price
list for additional services and rentable items, as well as an information
booklet about KISS.


PAYING THE KISS BILL
Your KISS bill(s) must be paid at the Cashier's Office (Block V, entrance
3). Opening hours are Monday - Friday 8.30 - 15.30. The office will accept
Dankort and international credit cards (e.g. AmericanExpress, Diner's Club,
Eurocard, MasterCard and Visa) as well as Traveller's Cheques.


ID CARD
You will get an ID card only if you opt to purchase a meal card for the
Polar Bear Inn (the dining hall). Get details about this under the item
"Dining Hall".


BANK & CURRENCY
Greenland uses Danish "kroner" (DKK) as the only official currency. There
is no bank in Kangerlussuaq. You should therefore arrange for sufficient
cash for your own activities prior to your arrival or plan to use a Dankort
(the national Danish "credit card"), Danish cheques, or credit cards as
payment.

You can buy Danish currency (max. DKK 3 000/day) at the Post Office using
your Dankort - and only this card. At the Airport Hotel reception counter
you can also buy Danish money using AmericanExpress, Dankort, Diner's Club,
Eurocard, JCB, MasterCard, Visa or Traveller's Cheques, - but only up to
DKK 500 a day.

The general store, "Butikken", will accept payment in cash, cheques, or by
using Dankort, Eurocard, MasterCard, JCB, Visa, AmericanExpress and Diner's
Club. However, when paying with Dankort or any of the international credit
cards you are required to use your card-specific PIN code at the credit
card terminal in the store.

For PIN-coded transactions the maximum amount to be drawn per card per day is:
Eurocard/MasterCard/JCB/Visa:   max. DKK 1 400
AmericanExpress:   max. DKK 1 500
Dankort:   max. DKK 2 000
Diner's Club:   max. DKK 3 000
Personal cheques (Danish banks, only):   max. DKK 3 000

You may therefore use the general store to buy Danish currency, but the
store manager pleads that you wait with currency purchase until after noon
(Monday - Friday).


POST OFFICE & MAIL
There is only general delivery of mail in Kangerlussuaq. KISS has its own
mail box at the Post Office (situated in block L) adjacent to the Airport
Hotel building. Post Office opening hours are: Monday - Friday 8.30 -
15.30. Saturday and Sunday closed. However, mailboxes are available for
checking at all times.

The correct mailing address to anyone at KISS is:
[name]
KISS
P.O. Box 109
DK-3910 Kangerlussuaq.

The KISS mail box will be emptied once a day Monday - Saturday by the KISS
manager  and your mail will be available for personal pick-up in the KISS
building (June - September only). If you would like to have your mail
forwarded to your field camp you will have to arrange this with the KISS
manager prior to your field period. Delivery of mail to field camps will
depend entirely on the availability of reliable connections from
Kangerlussuaq to your camp(s), e.g. visits by boat, chartered helicopter,
or fixed-wing aircraft, and will be on a "space available basis".


TELECOMMUNICATION
At the upper floor in the KISS building (in the corridor next to the
kitchen and lounge) is a phone for incoming calls. The same phone can be
used for outgoing calls too, but only to four digit numbers within the
Kangerlussuaq area. The KISS manager has a separate phone line (6452) in
his room 201 upstairs and in his office downstairs.

A telefax is located in the "Xerox & Computer Room (room 102) at the ground
floor. This fax machine is open for incoming telefaxes for KISS residents.
If you want to use the telefax for outgoing communication, just contact the
manager, and the price for sending your material will be added to your KISS
bill, payable when you leave Kangerlussuaq.

In the side entrance corridor, adjacent to room 112, is a wall-hanged pay
phone accepting Danish 1, 5, and 10 kroner coins. This phone can be used
for long distance, incl. international, calls (if you have enough coins !).
A good way to use this phone - for you - is to pay for a quick call to ask
the other person to call back at the pay phone number (1 1473) when you
hang up.

You may opt to use the calling card alternative from any telephone with
access to areas outside Kangerlussuaq. Pay-phones will have to be fed one
initial 10-kroner coin to provide a dial tone for you to enter the
toll-free number. Consult your specific calling cards to check whether
their services include Greenland. The Nordic "Tele2 Calling Card" does work
from the wall-hanged pay-phone (1 1473) in the KISS building and other
cards may as well.

KISS telephone, local incoming/outgoing calls:    6451
KISS telephone, long distance incoming calls:    +299 1 1107, then enter 6451
KISS manager telephone:     +299 1 1107, enter 6452
KISS pay phone, long distance incoming/outgoing calls:    +299 1 1473
KISS telefax, incoming/outgoing calls:    +299 1 1472

All rooms and offices are equipped with a telephone plug-in socket so you
can establish your own independant telephone line and number if you so
wish. Just contact the TELE Greenland staff in Kangerlussuaq (phone +299 1
1056 or local 9895) to get a quote on costs and conditions. Current fee is
DKK 1 350 to establish a five digit number and an additional quarterly fee.


You may not bring your own telephone as the TELE Greenland has a monopoly
of selling plug-in telephones. However, if you have a need for it you may
bring your own telefax machine to KISS; just make sure that your telefax
equipment is of a type officially approved by the Danish Telecommunication
Directorate.

You may choose to use your own portable cellular phone to KISS. Before you
can access any number via satellite links to western Europe and North
America you must establish contact to TELE Greenland (press 'asterisk' 10
'square'). Please note, that only the NMT 900 system is in operation in
Greenland.

If you are a Danish NMT 900 customer the use of your portable phone while
in Kangerlussuaq will be billed via the "TELE Danmark Mobil" at the address
already provided by you to this company. If you are an NMT 900 customer
from outside the Danish realm you will have the bill for using the portable
phone in Greenland sent directly to the address that you provide to TELE
Greenland.


LOCAL TRANSPORTATION
You are welcome to use the Kangerlussuaq bus system. The busses run
according to posted schedules, primarily on the paved road system between
the southern and northern part of Kangerlussuaq and mainly within normal
working hours. However, the bus service is also available in "off-duty"
hours, but at a lower frequency. After 20.00 a taxi can be requested at
phone number 99.

You will need one ticket for every ride in the bus. Tickets (also bundles
of them) can be purchased at the reception counter of the Airport Hotel at
a price of DKK 10 per ticket.


GENERAL STORE
The "Butikken" (general store) is located in Block M just north of the
Airport Hotel. Opening hours are Monday - Friday 10.00 - 17.00, Saturday
10.00 - 12.00, Sunday closed. You can buy fresh, canned, frozen, dried and
freeze-dried foods for household use as well as for field trips. In case
you need large quantities of special items you are recommended to contact
the store manager well in advance to learn the terms of payment and
delivery.


LIQUOR STORE
At the west end of Block M is the entrance to the liquor store where you
may purchase alcoholic  beverages as well as tobacco products. Opening
hours are Monday, Wednesday, Thursday 16-17; Saturday 10-12; closed Tuesday
and Sunday.


TAX-FREE AREA
Kangerlussuaq and a well defined area around the airport has the status of
"special tax-free zone". This means that only residents in Kangerlussuaq
have a legal access to buy tobacco products and alcoholic beverages at
tax-exempted prices.

In case you are planning to stay at KISS for at least 30 consecutive days -
and have obtained an ID card - you will be eligible to purchase the above
mentioned goods at the reduced prices. However, please note that it is
illegal for you to sell or give the mentioned tax-exempted goods to anyone
who is not a permanent resident in Kangerlussuaq, nor is it legal to bring
these goods outside the tax-free zone.
The Liquor Store, located in the west end of Block M, is open Monday -
Wednesday - Thursday 16 - 17, Saturday 10 - 12, Tuesday and Sunday closed.


DINING HALL
The "Polar Bear Inn" (three blocks down the road from KISS) is the
Kangerlussuaq staff's cafeteria and dining facilities and to gain access to
the Dining Hall it is required that you buy a meal card for either certain
types of meals (e.g. only dinner) or full board (i.e. breakfast, lunch,
dinner as well as morning, afternoon and evening coffee/tea with
pastry/rolls).

With any meal all types of juice, milk and non-bottled soft drinks are
included, whereas beer, wine and other bottled beverages must be purchased
separately.

Meal cards must be purchased at the Secretariat in the Airport
Administration building (in Block V, entrance 2). The card is a photo ID
card which must be presented at the cashier's counter in the dining hall
when get your meal(s).

Dining Hall meal hours are: Breakfast 06.30 - 09.00, Lunch 11.30 - 13.00,
Dinner 17.00 - 18.30.


CAFETERIA
In Block A, the Airport Hotel building, a large cafeteria - catering
primarily to the hotel guests - is open to everyone all days from 06.30 to
21.30. The kitchen closes at 20.00 for preparations of hot meals. You can
get breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacks and beverages. Take-home orders can
also be arranged (phone 1104). Only Danish currency, Dankort, or Danish
cheques are excepted as payment.


RESTAURANT
Adjacent to the cafeteria is a restaurant where you can experience
Greenlandic and international cuisine and professional service. The
restaurant accepts AmericanExpress, Dankort, Diners Club, Eurocard,
MasterCard, Visa, as well as Danish bank cheques.
Opening hours: Monday - Friday 11.00 - 14.00; Monday - Sunday also 18.00 -
22.00; the kitchen closes at 21.00. You may book a table at phone 1105.


ROWING CLUB
You can choose to enlist as an active member of the rowing club and
thereafter - during summer - use the various club vessels free of charge,
or you can decide just to visit and enjoy the social and culinary benefits
of the popular summer (i.e. May - September) restaurant in the club house
on the shore of Tasersuatsiaq - or "Lake Ferguson", as the utility water
lake has been called colloquially since the start of the American epoch. To
dine at the Rowing Club you need to enlist as a guest member for a fee of
DKK 10.

The rowing club is located about 2 km south of "downtown" Kangerlussuaq.
Call the club at phone 1144 for more info and booking of tables.

The club offers free taxa service for dining guests but only if you request
the taxi when you book your table. The club taxi will pick you up in front
of the dining hall, Polar Bear Inn, at 18.30, 19.15 or 20.00 depending on
your booked dining hours.

At the club Greenland handicrafts, seal skins, and other genuine souvenirs
are for sale.


LAUNDRY
The KISS building has its own laundry machines on the top floor, but should
you desire to let someone else do your laundry, just deliver your dirty
clothes at the Laundry Shop in building 576 (across the street from KISS).
Please ask for a price list. The opening hours are: Monday - Friday 6.00 -
14.30.


LIBRARY
Kangerlussuaq hosts a public library with non-scientific literature in
Danish and Greenlandic. The library is located in Block Y next to the
school and you may read Danish and Greenlandic newspapers and check out
books for up to one month. The library service is free. Opening hours are
Monday 16-18, Wednesday 13.30-15.30 and Thursday 15-18..

In the KISS building a modest scientific library is being established at
the ground floor. Selected periodicals and books as well as reprints and
reports on research themes pertinent to the Kangerlussuaq region are
available for in-house use only. Please, ask the KISS manager if you have
any questions or comments relating to the KISS library.

Please note, that it is highly recommended to any researcher visiting KISS
to donate literature to the KISS library. Donations must be registered and
stamped in the Manager's Office (room 101) before entering the shelves of
the library. Reports and reprints that are otherwise difficult to obtain
and that are dealing with subjects relevant to the region will be
especially appreciated.


BOWLING LANES
In building 494, opposite the Dining Hall, you will find the bowling
facilities with several lanes and the required equipment. The use of these
facilities must be booked; call phone 9810.  Opening hours are
Monday-Thursday 17-22, Saturday-Sunday 12.30-18, Friday closed.

The hourly fee for use of one lane and equipment is. DKK 80. Next to the
lanes a small snack bar sells beverages and toasts.

[Please note that the building 494 has had a fire recently and the interior
is presently not usable]


AERO CLUB
Kangerlussuaq hosts a small aero club with a couple of single engine
fixed-wing aircrafts. If you possess a pilot's certificate and register as
an active club member you may be allowed to rent one of the aircrafts for
local trips. You can also register as an ordinary club member and enjoy the
landscapes from above as passenger if you arrange with one of the club
pilots to take you on a flight. There is a seasonal membership fee and an
hourly fee when using an aircraft.
For more info, please call the Aero Club chairman at phone 9206.


MUSEUM
In the former "Sondrestrom Air Base Headquarters" building south of the
airport control tower a small museum is being established with displays on
the flora and fauna of the region, the military history (1941 -1992) of the
US "Sondrestrom Air Base", the aviation history of the civilian airport, as
well as aspects of the history of the Kangerlussuaq region.
The opening hours will be posted on the bulletin board next to the
Manager's Office in the KISS building.


SNOWMOBILES
Most winters offer sufficient snow conditions to allow snowmobiling in the
terrain. Kangerlussuaq has a small snowmobile club and the members arrange
recreational tours in the adjacent region. You may contact the club, phone
9011, and arrange to go along on a trip.

Should you need to use one or more snowmobiles for transport tasks in
relation to your fieldwork you are recommended to contact the KISS manager
or the Greenland Tourism office for a quote of specific prices and
conditions for renting snowmobiles and sledges. Unspecified prices are
listed at the end of this booklet.


SPORT FISHING
As a guest in Greenland you are required to buy a sport fishing licence if
you want to do any fishing. The only fish species available in this region
for sport fishing in freshwater is the Arctic Char (Salvelinus alpinus).
The licence is for sale at the Police Office (located in Block G) as well
as at the Greenland Tourism counter and office in the Airport Hotel
building. You can choose between a sport fishing licence valid for one
month (DKK 200) or a licence valid for three months (DKK 500). If you wish
to go hunting as well, any of the sport hunting licences also includes the
right to sport fish.



SPORT HUNTING
In the region around Kangerlussuaq Airport hunting is generally banned.
Check with the police officer to learn where the boundaries are for
protected areas. You can purchase a sport hunting licence at the Police
Office (located in Block G). With the licence comes a folder informing on
harvestable species and their open seasons. The small game hunting licence
is the cheapest (DKK 1 000), the most popular, and it is valid for three
months.


GOLF
On the sandy flats about 2 km east of the Airport you will find the
northernmost internationally approved, sand-based 18-hole golf course in
the world. If you are into golfing, contact the Kangerlussuaq Golf Club
(phone 1 1130 or 1 1174) to arrange loan or renting of the necessary
equipment. The green fee is DKK 50.


OTHER SPORTS
The gym center is located down the road from KISS . In this huge building
an array of facilities are at your disposal if you want to do work-out and
body building or perhaps play badminton, volley or basket ball, indoor
socker, or racquet ball. You will also find an indoor swimming pool, a hot
spa pool, and saunas. Swim suits/trunks can be rented in the Gym Center.

There is an admission fee of DKK 15 to the indoor facilities. Adjacent to
the center are an outdoor tennis court and a softball field.

The opening hours are: Monday - Thursday 16 - 19, Friday closed, Saturday -
Sunday 13 - 17.

If you join the sports club KALIF as a member the Gym Center is open to you
also in the evenings until 22.00 (Monday - Thursday)


MEDICAL AID
Kangerlussuaq does not have a resident medical doctor. Every 4-6 months a
doctor from the Greenland health system will visit and you may consult
him/her with your medical problems which could not be solved by the
Kangerlussuaq nurse.

The nurse's clinic is situated in Block N of the Airport Hotel complex.
Opening hours are Monday - Friday 9 - 10.30.The nurse can handle most of
the more ordinary cases. Medicin may also be obtained from the nurse, after
consultation with a medical doctor. In acute cases requiring immediate
action by a doctor the patient will be evacuated to the nearest hospital.
Please note, that medical service including medicine is free in Greenland.

In case of emergency, call phone number 99 (the operator) and ask for
assistance.


DENTIST
There is no permanent dentist in town. Only twice a year a dentist from the
Greenland health system will visit Kangerlussuaq for consultations. Nothing
more than an ordinary check and an ordinary cavity filling can be performed
at Kangerlussuaq; this will be free of charge to you. All other dental work
will have to take place at a dentist's clinic somewhere else at your own
expense.


FLIGHT LINE
Kangerlussuaq is dissected by the flight line, i.e. 2815 m runway, the
adjacent taxiways, and the aprons. All this space is reserved for aircrafts
and the services directly associated with them. All the paved areas that
aircrafts are allowed to use are therefore off limit to all unauthorized
personnel. Should you have a need to access e.g. the aprons by vehicle in
order to bring or fetch cargo in relation to your research activities you
must be granted specific flight line access prior to your entering the
areas. The permission can be obtained through a personal request at the
Airport Administration office in Block V.

While you are on the flight line always pay special attention to aircraft
traffic, parked aircrafts, and refueling activities. You must - without
hesitation - follow the orders given by pilots or other aircraft crew
members.


FUELS
Scientists make use of a variety of fuel types, and the most common types
will be available in Kangerlussuaq.

In the general store you can purchase:

Field stove gas (butane) (e.g. "Gaz Bleu" for camping stoves) in small
pressurized containers;

Field stove alcohol (e.g. for "Trangia Stormkökken")

At the Statoil service station next to the Airport building the following
products are for sale:

Gasoline (e.g. for special field stoves, motor vehicles, and portable
generators); Kerosene/paraffin (e.g. for primusses and lamps);

DFA, Jet A-1, AVGAS and lubricating oils (e.g. for motor vehicles,
aircrafts, and heating stoves).

Contact the Statoil manager to get a quote of actual prices.

If your scientific activities will need large quantities of fuels sold by
Statoil you are recommended to contact the Statoil manager Bent Mühring
(phone +299 1 1049) toset up a special arrangement.


MAPS
Topographic maps for the region are for sale in the general store and in
the Greenland Tourism office, but only in a very limited diversity. In
order to be sure to have the maps you need before you start the project in
and around Kangerlussuaq you are recommended to obtain your maps prior to
going to Greenland.

All ice-free areas of Greenland are covered by topographic maps in scale
1:250 000 and they can be ordered from "The National Survey and Cadastre"
(address: Rentemestervej 8, DK-2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark; phone: +45 35
87 50 50, fax: +45 35 87 50 51). The Kangerlussuaq inland area is
represented on two separate sheets in this scale, i.e.  66V2 and 67V2.

However, you can also buy one map sheet covering the whole Kangerlussuaq -
Sisimiut region (from the Inland Ice to the coast of the Davis Strait
between 66 21'N - 67 27'N and 50W - 54W) in scale 1:250 000. This kind of
map is marketed by the company "Saga Maps" and may be ordered as "Orange
no. 8" by contacting any bookstore in Greenland. The one closest to
Kangerlussuaq would be Sisimiut Boghandel (address: Aqqusinersuaq 33,
DK-3911 Sisimiut; phone: +299 1 5590; fax: +299 1 5690).

Greenland Tourism is producing new hiking maps for various areas in West
Greenland. In the summer of 1995 a hiking map (with a written guide) for
the Kangerlussuaq - Sisimiut region will be available in scale 1: 100 000
and sold from the Greenland Tourism counter/office in the airport building.
These maps are of high printing quality and topographic detail and can be
recommended.

At the Geological Survey of Greenland (address: Öster Voldgade 10, DK-1350
Copenhagen K; phone +45 3311 8866; fax +45 3393 5352) you may purchase an
excellent quaternary geology map in scale 1:100 000 of the Kangerlussuaq
region.

In the tourist information material available free of charge at the
Greenland Tourism counter in the airport building you will find various
types of maps of the local Kangerlussuaq area, i.e. primarily covering the
areas adjacent to the road and track system; these maps are of no good use
for any field activity.

When using a compass, please note that the magnetic declination is 39.5
degrees W (in 1995)


FIELD CABINS
At present field cabins for researchers are scarce in the Kangerlussuaq region.

Adjacent to "Lake 120", c. 15 km to the east-southeast in the inland region
south of the valley Örkendalen, is a small but very suitable, cabin (two
bunks + an extra madras, four chairs, a table, and a heating stove) of
excellent standard for one or two field workers in summer or winter. The
use of the cabin is free of charge, but as the cabin is used as a logistics
base in short summer and winter periods by an outfitter you are asked to
contact the head of the outfitter company, Jan Thrysöe (phone: +45 9837
3896; telefax: +45 9837 3834), to check if there will be a conflict of
dates concerning your planned use of the cabin. Please notify the KISS
manager about your stay in the cabin. Note that you must bring your own
provision to the cabin as well as heating fuel to replace the quantity you
will use for cooking and heating purposes.

In the Arnangarnup Qoorua valley (often called "Paradise Valley") c. 80 km
southwest of the airport another small cabin (accommodating two persons,
and no more!) is located in very interesting and pleasant surroundings next
to a river. The use of the cabin is free of charge; however, access to the
cabin must be obtained from the owner: Geological Survey of Greenland
(address: Öster Voldgade 10, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark; phone +45 33 11
88 66; fax +45 33 93 53 52). Please note, that this valley is a nature
preserve and access and activities are therefore regulated accordingly. Ask
the KISS manager or the Danish Polar Center for further details. You must
bring your own equipment, provisions, and needed fuels along to the cabin.

In the vicinity of the Kangerlussuaq road system, especially around the
shore of lake Tasersuatsiaq, "Lake Ferguson", and north of the harbour, a
number of privately owned cabins are used by residents of Kangerlussuaq for
recreational purposes. You do not have access to these cabins - unless you
are invited.

The large cabin (accommodating 10-12 persons) north of the river outlet in
the bay Angujaartorfik (locally called "Moskusbugten") is owned by the
Kangerlussuaq airport administration. Residents of Kangerlussuaq may use
this cabin freely; there is no booking so you should be prepaired that
somebody else could be there when you show up.
During winter you may reach this cabin by driving a vehicle on the fjord
ice. For your own safety, please check with the airport administration
whether the fjord ice is safe and driveable at the time you plan to go to
Moskusbugten.


ACCESS TO THE INLAND ICE
KISS is only 20 km away from the Greenland Inland Ice. Heading east from
the mountain "Keglen" (locally known as "Sugar Loaf") - where the official
gravel road ends - is a track driveable by 4x4 vehicles, All-Terrain
Cycles, as well as mountain bikes. This track leads to the very edge of the
ice cap at the locality known as Russell Glacier.

The glacier has a vertical, c. 30m high front, that is active! Although it
is possible to approach the front for a close encounter with the ice, it is
strongly recommended that - for your own safety - you do not pass the signs
posted on locality warning against falling ice. If you sit for a while and
watch the scenery you will probably experience why it is prudent to keep a
distance.

At several sites along the Inland Ice in this region the ice itself is
accessible using the necessary glacier climbing equipment. However, unless
your project includes planned activities on the ice cap and you have
obtained a written permit from the Danish Polar Center to venture on to the
ice for research purposes, you should restrict yourself to enjoy the
icescape from the land side or from the air.

Should you have an interest in establishing a field camp on the Inland Ice
or just visit one or more localities on the ice you must submit your plans
to the Danish Polar Center well in advance and be prepared to meet specific
safety measures and insurance requirements before a permit can be issued.


CLIMATE

Kangerlussuaq lies within the low Arctic ecozone with diverse habitats as
e.g. salt lakes, dune systems, mountain tundra and steppes with caribou and
muskox populations. Caribou are indigenous but muskoxen were introduced
from Northeast Greenland thirty years ago.

The plant growing season is long, featuring 150 days without snow cover, 80
continuously frost-free days, and 150 consecutive days with maximum air
temperature continuously above freezing; (the numbers given are average
values). The climate is very stable and predictable with a monthly mean of
241 sun hours in May through August.

The Kangerlussuaq region is a well exposed high grade basement terrain
forming the southern border zone of the Nagssugtoqidian orogen. The region
has a glacial landscape dating back 8,000 years.

Kangerlussuaq has a low Arctic continental climate with quite stable
weather patterns summer and winter. During winter (October - April) the air
temperature may drop to below -45 C for extended periods, whereas the
summer (June - August) may have warm and balmy days with +22 C in the
shade.

Although there is a high predictability in the local weather pattern you
should never forget that the weather may change quickly. Do not venture out
into the field unprepaired for adverse weather conditions!

Kangerlussuaq Airport is located 55 km north of the Arctic Circle. Around
the solstices the area therefore experiences a short period of midnight sun
and of midday darkness, respectively.

At any time, a weather forecast can be obtained for either the local area
or any other place in Greenland by contacting the meteorologist on duty in
the Met Office at the top floor above the general store "Butikken" in Block
M.


KISS MANAGER
During the summer season KISS has its own on-site manager.
In June - September 1995 the manager is Henrik Barner Rasmussen.
Henrik is a graduate student from the Institute of Biology, University of
Aarhus, Denmark. Besides taking care of the duties as manager, Henrik is
also doing some fieldwork relating to his speciality: invertebrate
population biology.
During the remainder of the year the KISS management is located in Block V,
entrance 2, in the offices of the Airport Administration.


HANDY PHONE NUMBERS
Four digit numbers are local, and local calls are free.

Aero Club
9206

Airport Administration Office
7901

Airport Control Tower
7990

Airport Hotel Cafeteria
1104

Airport Hotel Manager
1100

Airport Hotel Reception
1101

Airport Hotel Restaurant
1105

Airport, Technical Manager
7902

Bowling Lanes
9810

Car Repair Shop
7979

Cargo Terminal
1 1213

Conference Center
5400

Danish Polar Center
+45 3288 0100 / +45 3288 0120

Dining Hall "Polar Bear Inn"
9582

Fire Department
1110

First Air Booking & Ticketing
1 1488

General Store "Butikken"
7973

General Store Manager
7974

Geological Survey of Greenland
+45 3388 1166

Golf Club
1 1130 / 1 1174

Greenland Air Booking
1 1488

Greenland Air Office
1 1040

Greenland Telecom
9895 / 1 1056

Greenland Telecom Workshop
7969

Greenland Tourism
1 1098

Gym / Sports Center
7982

ID cards
7901

KISS / in-house manager
6452 / +299 1 1107, 6452

KISS / local calls
6451

KISS / long distance ingoing
+299 1 1107, 6451

KISS / manager in low season
7901 / +299 1 1300 / +299 1 1107, 7901

KISS / pay-phone
+299 1 1473

KISS / telefax
+299 1 1472

Laundry
7980

Meteorologists' Office
1 1022

National Survey and Cadastre
+45 3587 5050

Nurse's Clinic
1114 / 1 1211

Operator
99

Police Station
9550 / 1 1222

Post Office
1 1011

Room Service (Arctic Contractors)
1108

Rowing Club
1144

SAS Booking & Ticketing
1 1030

Sisimiut Book Store
1 5590

Snowmobile Club
9011

Statoil
1 1049

Taxi/Bus
3000


KISS REGULATIONS

At a reseanably low cost (current rate is DKK 150 per day), KISS can offer
you a place to live with free access to kitchens, lounges, bathrooms,
showers, laundry, offices, conference rooms, storage rooms, and
laboratories. However, to keep costs low also in the future, to ensure the
continued KISS services to researchers and the satisfaction of the KISS
users, it is important that you observe the following in-house rules during
your stay:

Cleaning
Private rooms: The Kangerlussuaq janitor service will clean your room only
after you have checked out, so it will appear fresh and inviting to the
next inhabitant.
During your stay you are requested to keep your own room in an acceptable
hygienic standard. It is especially important to empty ashtrays and litter
bins frequently and keep the contents of your refrigerator free of decaying
or smelly products.

Offices, lounges, and conference rooms: Following your use of these common
facilities you are expected to clear and clean tables and floor and leave
the furniture in good order.

Laboratories: Chemicals have to be stored away after use. KISS-owned
equipment must be cleaned and left on the site allocated to it. You must
clear and clean sinks, tables, and floor when you have finished your lab
work - or before that if accumulated material/litter appears to be a
nuisance for other users. Material that you have taken to the labs must be
removed from the labs after you are through using it. While personal
equipment/material is being used in the labs, please leave a label with
your name and room   on it to let the manager and colleagues know who is
the owner.
When your project is finished your are most welcome to leave any usable
amount of chemical or material that you will not need to bring home.
Remember, though, to label chemicals etc. and supply any necessary
information as to their special purposes and/or handling; also inform the
manager of your donation to KISS.

Storage rooms: KISS offers you free storage space in the designated storage
rooms at the ground floor. You are welcome to leave your bags, boxes,
containers, or equipment in any of the storage rooms for the period that
you will be gone, - but only after the manager has been notified and the
items are clearly labelled with your name, home address, and date for your
return to KISS. Please, do not store any perishable items.
Stored items that are not picked up within three months following the
labelled date of return will be disposed of by the manager.

Kitchen: For the well-being of all of your fellow inhabitants of KISS, it
is imperative that anyone using the kitchen facilities takes pride in
leaving the place tidy and clean to the next user!
Therefore, please remember to do your washing up, clean the tables and
floor, and label your foods in the refrigirators and cupboards. Unlabeled
items can be used by anyone at anytime.
Don't use dishcloths to clean tables etc. because these cloths easily go
stale. Instead, use paper towels.

Towels, linen etc.: If you are using textiles delivered by the
Kangerlussuaq janitor service you are expected to place dirty towels and
linen in the special container in the laundry room on the upper floor where
it will be picked up by the janitor.

Cleaning utensils: In the "Drying Room" on the upper floor and in the
"Chemicals" room on the ground floor you will find vacuum cleaners,
buckets, detergents, brooms etc. - all available for your cleaning efforts
according to the above mentioned requests.
Please, remember to put the equipment back in place right after you are
through using it.

Waste disposal: A large waste container is located between the KISS
building (662) and the neighbouring building (663). Use this container for
all types of trash. It will be emptied by the waste truck at frequent
intervals.


RENTABLE ITEMS AND SERVICES

(Note: Quoted prices are subject to changes)

The following can be rented from Greenland Tourism; phone 1 1098

1: ITEM / SERVICE
2: PRICE (in DKK)
3: DEPOSIT (in DKK per item)
4: NOTES


1: Cabin (on the shore of Tasersuatsiaq)
2: 1 100 - 1 600/week
3: none
4: price depending on cabin size and quality

1: Tent
2: 150/week
3: 300
4: 2 - 4 persons light-weight versions

1: Sleeping bag
2: 100/week
3: 300
4: excl. liner

1: Backpack
2: 150/week
3: 300
4: unspecified type

1: Ground pad
2: 60/week
3: 300
4: closed-cell type

1: Field stove (Stormkökken)
2: 60/week
3: 300
4: excl. fuel

1: Fishing gear
2: 100/week
3: 300
4: incl. rod, wheel, line and lures, but excl. license

1: Mountain bike
2: 100/day (8 hours), 400/week
3: 100
4: 10 speed versions, excl. tools

1: Cross country skis & boots
2: 50/day, 100/weekend
3: 100
4: incl. poles

1: Ice skates
2: 25/day, 50/weekend
3: 100
4: incl. boots

1: Snowmobile
2: 800/day, 2500/week
3: 300
4: incl. one tank full of gazoline + personal injury insurance.
Deductible insurance: DKK 3 000 for any damage to the snowmobile

1: VHF portable radio
2: 50/day, 200/week
3: 2 000
4: excl. the required personal radio license

1: ANNA emergency & safety package
2: 15/day, 50/week
3: 400
4: highly recommendable during field work


1: TRANSPORTATION by 8 passenger "mini-bus"
Note: Mini-bus prices are for one-way transportation with a max. of 4
persons with luggage (i.e. backpacks)


KISS ( Keglen (Sugar Loaf)
300/group

KISS ( top of Black Ridge (TACAN)
300/group

KISS ( Rowing Club / Tasersuatsiaq
300/group

KISS ( harbour / "Kellyville"
400/group



RENT A CAR

1: DKK/day
2: DKK/week
3: DKK/month

Greenland Tourism car rental

1: 300/4 hours, 600/8 hours
2: 2 500


Airport Rent-a-car pool

Dodge pickup (2 pax)
1: 500
2: 2 700
3: 7 700

Dodge truck (3 pax)
1: 500
2: 2 700
3: 7 700

Dodge van (5 pax)
1: 650
2: 3 400
3: 9 900

Toyota Dyna pickup (5 pax)
1: 650
2: 3 400
3: 9 900

Volvo 245 (5 pax)
1: 650
2: 3 400
3: 9 900

Chevrolet (6 pax)
1: 700
2: 3 675
3: 10 600

Mercedes bus (9 pax)
1: 800
2: 4 200
3: 12 200

Note:
All day/week prices include just one full fuel tank; monthly prices include
all fuel/oil concumption.
Any off-road driving is prohibited.
Deductible insurance: DKK 3 000 for any damage to the vehicle.
Only the signer of the renting contract is allowed to drive the vehicle.

===============================================================
This file was downloaded from Greenland Guide:
http://www.greenland-guide.dk
===============================================================

END OF WELCOME TO KISS

