IRPS NEWSLETTER 
June 1, 1996
Issue #6

Table of Contents:

IRPS Monthly Status Report
Monthly Columns
  New AD&D Monsters (Jonathan Thomas <angiejt@erols.com>)
  Communication Within Gaming Systems (Harold Ogle <harold@svpal.org>)
  Adam's Archive Of The Arcane (Adam Cecchetti <hackerc@westol.com>)
  Torac's Mystical Orb (Dave Mavretic <davem1@mail.microserve.net>)
  On The Shoulders Of Giants (Bruce Sheffer <bsheffer@arthritis.org>)
  Theme: Just A Treasure Hunt Without It
	(John Perich <shavenyak3@aol.com>)
  Familiars (Wizard Davaro <ron@brecknet.com>)
  DM's Advice (Earl Harrison <harrison@comsys.net>)
  Warring In The Forgotten Realms (Dana Drury <dana@zip.com.au>)
  Amber campaign: The Shadows of Truth 
	(Sean Pagliarulo <71062.3412@compuserve.com>)
Monthly Classified Ads
  Subject: Chill RPG - The McIver Horror
  Subject: Swords & Magick Fantasy Role-Playing Game
  Subject: AD&D 2nd Edition - Game in Europe
  Subject: IRC Role-Playing
  Subject: IRC RPG Channel on Dalnet
  Subject: PBEM Game
  Subject: MUSHES
  Subject: Dragon*Con


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Club Status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Well everyone, our club is moving right along at a pretty good rate 
since we're making a lot of progress in a lot of aspects in our club.  
We're currently trying to work with other RPG internet clubs in hopes of 
providing more to both of our members and hopefully we will have 
something worked out soon for everyone to hear.
	We have finally reached the 1000 barrier in club membership.  We 
stand a little over that number and expect to grow even more in the 
upcoming months.
	Also, our web page is now located in a new site.  It's new location 
is http://www.borg.com/~gdb319/daur/irps and we might be moving one more 
time in the next few months.  If you haven't seen the web page in awhile, 
it's been massively modified with the move.  It now uses frames which 
allows the web browser to divide the screen in various partitions where 
work can be done.  Also, we are currently trying to add a lot of graphics 
to beautify some of the text on the web page so keep a look out for that.  
Also, there might be some errors, I might have forgot about personal web 
pages, etc., please send me the errors and I will correct them as soon as 
possible.  Also, if you have suggestions on how to improve the web page, 
feel free to email me that also.
	Finally, a few of the IRPS officers have resigned due to several 
personal reasons among other things.  If you are interested in filling 
one of those positions please visit our web page for further information.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
New AD&D Monsters (Jonathan Thomas <angiejt@erols.com>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skeletons
	As they are composed chiefly of empty space, skeletons take only 
half damage from slashing and thrusting weapons.  Bludgeoning weapons 
inflict full damage.  As with all undead, Skeletons are immune to sleep 
hold and cold based spells, as well as any spell affecting the mind.

White Skeletons

  Climate/Terrain:  Any
 Number Appearing:  1d4+1
        Frequency:  Very Rare
               AC:  6
     Organization:  Band
         Movement:  12
   Activity Cycle:  Any
         Hit Dice:  2
             Diet:  None
            THACO:  19
     Intelligence:  Low (2-4)
Number of Attacks:  1
         Treasure:  Incidental
Damage per Attack:  By weapon
        Alignment:  Neutral Evil
 Magic Resistance:  Standard Undead
             Size:  M
           Morale:  Special (Never Checked)
         XP Value:  175 to 270, depending on circumstances

	A particularly nasty variant, the white skeleton is always 
encountered as a guardian.  They initially appear as piles of bone 
strewn about with a weapon fallen in them or nearby, but actions which 
violate the skeletons' orders will cause it to rise up and wield their 
weapons.  This takes a full round.  These skeletons are slightly 
intelligent, though, and usually wait until folks' guards are down, 
sometimes even allowing themselves to be searched in their disjointed 
state.  Therefore, they usually gain surprise (3 point modifier in their 
favor if the party is unaware of the threat.)  They do radiate both evil 
and magic.
	These critters are better constructed than their more familiar 
counterparts, and can use their weapons to full advantage.  Some are 
even armed with throwing weapons.  Their most horrific combat power, 
though, only comes into play when they take damage.  White skeletons 
regenerate at the rate of 1 hit point per round, even after being 
reduced below zero hit points (yeah, even from dust will they rise).  If 
they are killed, they will rise up from their piles upon regaining half 
their hit points.  There are a few ways to prevent this.  Bless will 
keep them from reattaching their bones for the duration of the spell, as 
will chant and prayer.  Holy water applied to the ends of the bones will 
keep them from reattaching permanently.  At minimum, the femurs and 
humeri must be so treated.  In this case, the skeleton will still 
reform, but handless, footless and harmless.  While treating all the 
joints of one skeleton takes a whole vial of holy water, one can treat 
up to four per vial in this way. 
	Dispel magic cast on a white skeleton will destroy it outright 
if it is successfully cast versus the skeleton's creator's level.
	They turn as wraiths, reverting to their bonepile state if 
turned.

Black skeletons

  Climate/Terrain:  Any
 Number Appearing:  1d6
        Frequency:  Very rare
               AC:  4
     Organization:  Band
         Movement:  12
   Activity Cycle:  Night
         Hit Dice:  3
             Diet:  None
            THACO:  17  
     Intelligence:  Semi (2-4)
Number of Attacks:  2
         Treasure:  none
Damage per Attack:  1d6/1d6
        Alignment:  Lawful Evil
 Magic Resistance:  Standard Undead
             Size:  M
           Morale:  Fearless (20) 
         XP Value:  270

	These undead have been treated in a sorcerous concotion to make 
them immune to non-magical weaponry.  A +1 or better weapon is required 
to hit them.  They carry no weapons themselves, but their hands have 
been replaced with largish claws, that they keep extremely sharp.  
They are generally used as hunters and assassins.  To these ends, they 
can track as a seventh level ranger and hide in the shadows with 75% 
ability.
	Their magical protection is negated by direct sunlight, so they 
are active only at night and on heavily overcast days.  If found in 
direct sunlight (fat chance) they can be hit by normal weapons.
	They turn as wights.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Communication Within Gaming Systems (Harold Ogle <harold@svpal.org>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Communication has always been the most important factor in the 
advancement of ideas, and this newsletter is testament to this.  My 
column this month deals with communication systems in RPGs and how to 
implement them as GMs or players.
  	Referring back to the above postulate that communication 
engenders ideas, a society with better communication will more likely 
succeed over ones with lesser forms of communication, be it a system of 
running messengers, smoke signals, or trans-wave receivers.  The 
military importance of quick communication is obvious -- units can 
report and react to orders faster -- but other aspects are just as 
important.  Scientific advancements depend on the accurate relaying of 
data, as does the responsive governing of  any nation. And a country led 
by someone who is in touch with the citizenry's concerns -- and who can 
react to such issues quickly -- will flourish, assuming the leader is 
responsive!  Ingenious players will often come up with communication 
systems when the GM has not provided adequate communications...though 
limiting one's contact with others is a great device for generating 
anxiety, fear, curiosity, and/or inventiveness in your players.
  	Systems of communication are important in any game world, and 
should be one of the things GMs plan out in advance for their settings. 
How do military units communicate with others? How fast is that 
communication, and does it maintain that speed over great distances?  
Several ancient countries employed runners in series, who would either 
memorize a message to be passed along, or in societies with written 
language, would have a scroll, envelope or tablet to pass along the 
chain of runners. The example of the Pony Express in the 19th century 
United States is oft mentioned, where messengers would switch vehicles 
rather than the messengers themselves. Another option is to use semi- 
or unintelligent messengers to transmit notes or instructions.  Carrier 
pigeons are a good example, though ensorcelled flying message capsules 
could work just as well.
  	Keeping with the low-tech communication systems, these messenger 
systems are great in terms of complexity of the message, compared to, 
say, smoke signals or drum beats...but the potential to disrupt a 
message is much greater.  If someone eliminates the messenger, then 
one's message is lost or in enemy hands!  Direct messages have the 
further disadvantage of limiting the receiving point: if the message is 
sent to a specific location, it will not be received if the intended 
audience has moved...so battlefield communication would have to be 
constant, with easily found pavilions or prearranged message drop-off 
locations.  Sense signals (smoke, drums) could not be prevented (unless 
through magic), but were not secret unless heavily encoded...and the 
amount of code you could apply to such a message is limited, unless you 
want the message to run for hours! So ask: do you want to broadcast, or 
transmit a message directly?
 	In science fiction campaigns, if you are using FTL travel, you 
will need to justify your FTL communciations: is there a small FTL 
particle that can be sent in waves, or is there another dimension 
(hyperspace, etc.) that permits the transmission of information 
capsules?  Again, these are broadcast or direct transmissions, with 
similar problems to the more primitve examples above.  But how much FTL 
is the communication?  Is it instantaneous, or does it take an amount of 
time to travel a distance?  Is that amount of time relative to distance, 
just FTL, or is it a set amount of time (2 hours in the warp dimension 
and a message can appear anywhere, regardless of distance), or is it 
relative to some other factor (time relative to the mass of the message, 
or to the gravity of the sending and receiving points)?  The amount of 
time a message takes to arrive at its destination will always be 
important as it affects game-play enormously. There are also telephone 
analogs in SF or magic-heavy campaigns: the psionic communication of two 
individuals who are mentally linked, whether constantly in contact or 
able to contact in a short time.  Such contact tends to be instantaneous 
regardless of distance, but is taxing on the communicators -- effort 
which sometimes varies with distance.
	As players our concern for secure communication is natural.  We 
wish to take advantage of the means available to us, and wish to make it 
as "safe" as possible. Usually some kind of combination of methods is 
most desirable. Arranging signals in advance can go a long way toward 
avoiding headaches later, so that a sense signal can be used to cue to
a particular location or eventuality ("one if by land, two if by sea", 
"two puffs means the tavern"), where the direct communication could take 
place, coded appropriately. Such makes communication less likely to be 
intercepted and tampered with. Meanwhile more obvious communications can 
be used to confuse the enemy...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Adam's Archive Of The Arcane (Adam Cecchetti <hackerc@westol.com>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Spell of the Month: Water Works

	Water has been ignored far too long as a major element of magic.  
I made these spells for those characters who do a lot of sea travel and 
those who have an abundant supply of water river lake etc...

Name: Creature of Water 
Range: N/A
Duration: 3 rounds per level
Level: 3
Components/Requirements: The thought of the creature must be in the 
caster mind at all time, requiring full concentration.  If the caster's 
concentration is broken the spell will not work properly.
Effects: The creature will appear from the nearest source of water, made
entirely of water, and will be under the total control of the caster.  
Damage varies between creatures, but this chart may help.

                Claw:1d6        Bite:1d8       
                Beak:1d6        Talon:1d6       
                Fang:1d4        Sting:1d4

Name: Water of Life
Range: Touch
Duration: N/A
Level: 5
Components/Requirements: The caster will lose half his current hp.
Effects: The touched character will regain full hp.  This does not take
effect if the character is dead!!!

Name: Hand of water
Range: 100' 
Duration: 10 rounds
Level: 2
Components/Requirements: A supply of water within 100'.
Effects: A hand of water will rise from the source and grap whom ever 
the caster wishes up to 100' away. If the snatched has a strength of over 
17 then they may make a saving throw, only after the hand has grabbed 
them.  The hand will hold the character in place untill 10 rounds is up 
or untill the caster dispells the spell.  The character can only make one 
saving throw!!!  If failed they are stuck.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Torac's Mystical Orb (Dave Mavretic <davem1@mail.microserve.net>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Torac's Mystical Orb

Freq:  Unique
Exp:   8000
Value: 10,000 

 	Torac, at a very early age, knew he was destined to be a mage.  He 
was slight of build, and abhorred physical confrontation.  Also, 
unbeknowenst to his father, Torac's next door neighbor was a fledgling 
mage, who showed Torac some of the different things he could do.
	Many years had passed for this Elven mage.  He studied and passed 
all the tests to become a mage.  Once, he found a Wilder's spellbook, and 
when casting a spell from that tome, caused a fairly serious rift to 
form, in the woods just outside Shadowdale, which in turn caught the 
attention of the famous Elminster. (But that is another story)
	Once he had attained sufficent stature and experience, Torac began
researching many different spells.  He figured out how to prolong ageing,
and make himself stronger and bigger.  He then began to learn the arts of
fighting as well, for there were a few times, when he was injured when a
spell he cast didn't go off as planned.
	But in the meantime, he had developed this Orb.  It is a simple 
thing really.  He created it to do the following.  Whenever he felt he 
needed to, he would withdraw it from wherever it was concealed upon his 
person, and hold it up to his left shoulder. It would then hover there, 
and the following would occur.  It would allow the Protection from Normal 
Missle weapons, and Protection from Magic (+25%).  This would allow him 
time to cast a suitable spell.
	There was one side effect, that he wasn't aware of, until the day 
he lost the orb.  Whenever used in the presence of any dragon, the Orb 
would begin to vibrate, and emit a high pitched wail, that was extremely 
painful for the weilder. (-1 HP per round)
	If the weilder of the Orb closed to close proximity with the 
dragon, the Orb would make a sound, not unlike a baby crying, and 
immediately Teleport without error, the weilder to a point up to 100 
miles away, rendering the weilder unconcious, and erasing any memorized 
spells from the mages mind.  The Orb then teleports itself, to a location 
known only to itself, to be found by someone else.
	Any information gained by an Identify spell will tell the caster
everything, except the last part.  The Orb is not sentient, by 
definition.  But due to the spells used to create it, it has a "fear" of 
dragons.   The Orb can only be used by mages of any school.  To anyone 
else, the Orb is a beautiful Orb, (that radiates a faint glow of magic 
if detect magic is cast), that can be sold for money, or can be used as a 
show piece of some sort.
	Torac has searched for the Orb.  But to date, hasn't found it, and 
Torac has been pursuing other avenues, only rarely giving any fleeting 
thought to the Orb anymore.
	If you have any unique or Rare items you'd like to see listed here, 
please send you ideas/items/concepts to:  davem1@island.microserve.com 
to be place in this editorial....

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
On The Shoulders Of Giants (Bruce Sheffer <bsheffer@arthritis.org>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Too many times the only changes that occur in a campaign are 
military or political.  Religious changes usually manifest themselves by 
becoming the state religion and get the military clout behind them.  In 
essence they become military and political as well.  However, 
technological advance has always been the greatest destabilizing force 
for change ever known.  These days, you leave a place for 10 years and 
return to find a bizarre landscape that only vaguely matches your memory.  
In many campaigns new technology and ideas can cause sweeping changes in 
an otherwise stable political state.
	In many modern day games or medieval games opportunities abound 
for introducing "Future Tech".  These can come from many sources: 

1)  Invention - someone had to invent everything.  Plastic was developed 
from a distillate of oil, left in the sun, which become cloudy.  Most 
strictly mechanical devices could have been invented most any time 
assuming that the appropriate skills in metallurgy were present.  In 
magical campaigns, magically hardened or malleable metals could take the 
place of complex alloys present today.  

2)  From the Future -  assuming that time travel is permissible, 
artifacts can drop in either by accident, as test loads, or on the 
person of time travellers.  These can be rather cryptic, useless, useful, 
or super-powered by the standards of the time in which they appear.  The 
Heechee stories by Frederick Pohl paint a wonderful tale of mysterious 
objects that slowly give up their secrets.

3)  From an alien world with higher tech -  Assuming that there are 
other species on other worlds in the galaxy, there is every reason to 
believe that some of their tech might find its way to Earth (or your 
favorite fantasy world).  This could arrive in the form of messages 
beamed through space, psychic imprints, probes from other worlds that 
pass through the solar system or fall into the atmosphere for one reason 
or another, artifacts from archeological digs of colonization attempts, 
even genetic tinkering in the far past.

4)  From a parallel dimension - any civilization that can create portals 
to other worlds probably is a higher tech.  The possibilities are the 
same as for time travel.

	Having allowed such an item to come into your campaign you have 
to decide what effect it can have.  Basic inventions such as mechanical 
engines, explosives, flight, and electromagnetic communication will 
quickly revolutionize a world, unless you take drastic steps to curb the 
spread of information.  All the above were invented and widely used in 
less than 50 years in our world.  Ways to curb such inventions are: 

1)  Religious injunctions - associate the technology with impurity and 
no one will want to use it (example: ancient China).  This assumes that 
there really is a basis for the edict in the religion and not just the 
priests trying to maintain power.  In such a case they themselves will 
probably continue to develop the tech in private (fighting fire with 
fire, redeeming it).  

2)  Restrict the theory that it is based on.  If no one knows how to use 
the tech, it cannot spread.  This can be done by making it a secret and 
hiding the tech away, killing all those who know about it except for 
royalty, or making it the province of a certain class or clan who guard 
it zealously and kill all who steal it.  This will only slow down the 
spread of such knowledge since knowing that a thing can be done is 
usually enough to ensure that someone else will "reinvent" the concept.

3)  Require that exotic and rare components are necessary to construct 
devices or exploit the technology.  In the Skylark of Space series by 
E.E. "Doc" Smith the protagonist discovers an unknown metal in an 
assumed meteor strike that is a catalyst for a nuclear disintegration 
process that can release immense amount of controllable energy.  By 
experimentation and personal genius a number of incredible devices are 
invented (including a star drive).  However, without the metal "X", no 
one else can use this technology.

	Why would you want to restrict the technology?  

1)  Those in power don't want anyone to know that advanced races exist.  
If you have told your people that they are the pinnacle of creation, 
other people using advanced tech might raise some doubts.  Likewise, if 
you have subjugated a people and they learn that more powerful races 
exist, they might be more willing to throw off your yoke.

2)  You want only a certain group to have the benefits of the 
technology.  In Bureau 13 (Tri Tac Games) the players work for a shadow 
agency who is looking for an edge over its enemies.  As a result, any 
advanced technology that they discover is confiscated by their 
organization, hopefully to be returned to them in interesting devices 
and objects which will aid them in their work.  This information is not 
disseminated since that would give the edge to their enemies as well.

3)  Civilization isn't ready for it.  Some discoveries are so powerful 
that wide sweeping changes will result.  Fast changes usually mean 
economic chaos.  Unbalances in technology also mean political and 
military clout.  If one side fears that the other has such an advantage 
they might go to war as a preemptive "protective" measure or, feeling 
invincible, one side might initiate conquest, capitalizing on their 
temporary advantage.

4)  If the owners know that someone has it, they will come and take it 
back.  A zillion movie plots have been based on this idea.  This idea 
assumes that after a sufficient amount of time, it will be safe to use 
the item.  This means that either the owners have gone away never to 
return, or you have been developing the technology in secret and 
dispersing it so that even if the rightful owners come back there won't 
be anything they can do about it.  The genie will be out of the bottle.

	Regardless of who benefits from the technology, the real trick 
is how to describe the technology in an interesting way.  Information 
fiat is the worst possible way.  This is usually presented as: "OK, you 
have discovered the secrets of the wonder widget so now you can make 
anything you want invisible".  How boring.  Also, since the players 
don't really know the basis of the technology, they cannot extrapolate 
to other interesting uses.  The best way to present the information is 
to allow the players to experiment with the device and describe its 
effects.  Thus described the players might understand that the device 
is actually an psionic broadcast device that forces everyone to ignore 
whatever it is attuned to, rather than warping light around the object.  
Knowing this, the players might then reason that it could be changed to 
make people do other things (a domination device, possibly a mechanical 
educator, or even mind transfer).  
	Now it gets really tricky.  No device is constructed of only one 
part so you now have to describe the interplay of the components.  
Shadis Magazine recently published an article suggesting that you create 
a pseudo science (ala Star Trek which used phase bubbles and imaginary 
subatomic particles) which describes the basis for the device.  Each 
component must then be described to show how it contributes to the 
proper operation of the device.  This has three benefits:

1)  The players know how to fix it if it breaks or runs out of an 
essential material.

2)  The players know what will happen if it overloads or is damaged.

3)  The players might be able to use this interplay of components and 
concepts to invent brand new devices.  

	Don't cheat the players by making it too simple.  If the 
principles are too advanced for the characters, let them seek out a sage 
or expert who can help them understand it.  Don't let them dump it into 
his or her hands and walk away.  Keep them involved.  Perhaps they have 
to protect him, while he deciphers it, from others who want its secrets.  
Maybe once they understand its nature, it is snatched away and they must 
retreive it before it can be reproduced (it acts as the working 
prototype).  By the end of the adventure, they should be experts in its 
function and design.  The result is an adventure that is both a puzzle 
and an opportunity, as well as a chance for personal excellence for the 
players.  
	If you do decide to introduce technology that will have sweeping 
changes, take the effort to design a timeline of derivative effects.  
This will enhance the sense of continuity in your campaign as the 
players see the fruit of their actions and adventures.  This will also 
make the results seem less arbitrary, more organic in development.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Theme: Just A Treasure Hunt Without It (John Perich <shavenyak3@aol.com>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
     	Generic Adventure: The party is approached by a merchant.  The 
merchant asks them to rescue his daughter from a group of bandits.  The 
party accepts, goes out, kills the bandits and rescues the daughter.  
The merchant rewards the PCs with lots of money in gratitude.
     	Hello again!  This article is about Theme.  Theme is an 
important part of a story, yet is often left out of most adventures 
(notably, the one given above).  Well, what is a theme?  How can you 
find the theme in a story?  How can you put a theme in an adventure?
	Let's take a look at the novel "Dragons of Autumn Twilight," by 
Tracy Hickman and Margaret Weis. What are some important ideas or 
philosophies that float in the background of this book?
     	- The truth isn't always easy or desirable.
     	- External appearances aren't what count.
     	- All things change with time.
     	Et cetera, et cetera.  While none of those were outwardly stated 
("Tanis said, `External appearances aren't what count.'" No, it doesn't 
sound right to me either), they are all visible in the pattern of the 
story.  They're very subtle, but add depth and value to the novel.
     	Take away the themes that were prevalent in Dragons of Autumn 
Twilight (there's more than just three, believe it or not).  What's left 
is a rather long dungeon crawl.  The PCs take the staff to Darken Wood.
The PCs go to Xak Tsaroth and kill the dragon.  The PCs go back to
Solace, get captured and get rescued by the Qualinesti elves.  The PCs
sneak into Pax Tharkas and kill Verminaard.  Doesn't sound quite as epic
that way, does it?
     	So, now that we know what theme is, all we need to do is put it 
into our adventures.  Unfortunately, this is more of a task than it 
seems.  The main reason that theme is so difficult to use in an AD&D 
module or campaign is that the PCs can make their own choices.  You, as 
the DM, can't force the players' actions.  Your task, therefore, is to 
give a theme to the adventure without making it seem contrived or 
forced.
	Below I have prepared a list of one-word themes that can be 
adapted to any adventure.  Giving an adventure theme is simply stated, 
but difficult to do.  The theme can be a motivation for one or more of 
the NPCs involved.  The theme can be a side issue, something that makes 
the job difficult for the adventurers.  It can be an urgent matter that 
needs to be resolved, or else the PCs' task won't be successfully 
completed.  I'll show you an example of how it's done later.

     	Vengeance	Hatred	Love
	Maturity	Honor		Responsibility
	Discovery	Sacrifice	Greed
	Charity	Courage	Hope
	Devotion	Justice	Deceit
	Desire	Pride		Fear

     	Let's take the Generic Adventure from above and give it a theme 
or two.  I think that Deceit and Maturity are two good ones (OK, I just 
picked them at random).  I find some way to tie the two in with the 
important parts of the plot.  Take a look at the Themed Adventure below.
     	The party is approached by a merchant.  The merchant asks them 
to rescue his daughter from a group of bandits.  The PCs agree and 
journey to the bandits' hideout.  However, the leader of the bandits is 
the girl's original mother (a child born out of wedlock)!  The merchant, 
suspecting this, decided not to tell the PCs, hoping that a few combat-
happy fighters could take care of the details.  If the adventurers are 
still insistent on bringing the girl back, they have a minor problem: 
the girl doesn't want to go back!  She's only 15, and has never left her 
home city until she was kidnaped.  Having seen the outside world, she's 
in no hurry to go back, knowing that her father will eventually pass the 
merchant business on to her.  The PCs must decide whether they will 
leave the girl where she wants to be (with her adventurous mother) or 
honor their contract (but leave the girl unhappy and make an enemy of a 
bandit captain).  Oh, and if the PCs decide to renege, the merchant 
hires more adventurers to go kill them and retrieve the girl.  And these 
new adventurers will be much more eager to kill people.
     	There we go!  I used Deceit with the merchant, as he 
deliberately kept facts away from the PCs, and that he will hire more 
adventurers to kill the PCs if they don't see things his way.  Maturity 
came in when the girl decided not to go back home.  Both of these will 
have to be faced some time in the adventure.  Overall, which one do you 
think will be more satisfying: the Themed Adventure or the Generic one?  

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Familiars (Wizard Davaro <ron@brecknet.com>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	This artical is dedicated to advise on the uses of spells and 
magical items in AD&D.  But whether this advise is legal or not in your 
game is solely up to the DM, so don't write me angry letters complaning 
about something that was useless in your campaign.
	Because of his magical studies a wizard cannot take the time to 
learn how to use a weapon and does not have the strength to wear heavy 
armor.  Most of his senses are dulled by long hours of work in the 
laboratory.  That is why a 'Find Familiar' spell is commonly used.  The 
familiar is devoted to serving the summoner and can be a spy or a weapon.  
The summoner also gains the familiar's sensory abilities.  But sometimes 
you can end up with a useless familiar.  What if you summoned a toad?  A 
wide angle vision is good for avoiding sneak attacks but that is as far 
as it goes.  It can't help in close combat and the toad can't be much 
help if someone sees it in town and squashes it.
	A 'Polymorph Other' spell can come in handy at times with your 
familiar.  If you weren't happy with what showed up when you summoned a 
familiar then you might polymorph it into something else, preferably 
something with great sensory powers such as a great cat, or if you wanted 
something that is better for protection an aurumvorax would be good for 
scaring off any opponents.
	Even while familiars are not often looked at to be spies by 
enemies, if your character is a known wizard most will look twice at a 
cat that is following them around.  You can be extra cautious by casting 
an 'Invisibility' or even an 'Improved Invisibility' spell on your 
familiar.  'Advanced Illusion' can be very useful in disguising your 
familiar by changing its fur color, or even its species so that it could 
not be recognized as your familiar without a good look.
	Sometimes a familiar cannot get back to you in time to relay 
important spying information.  The 'ESP' spell is useful at these times, 
or if you have one, an Medallion of ESP.  You can contact your familiar 
at times and get an update on what is going on and give orders to the 
familliar based on the report.  Using the Medallion, you could keep in 
constant contact with your familiar.
	I have found that the best way to introduce these ideas into your 
game is during combat and without warning.  If you ask your DM before 
hand if it is okay then he would have more time to think of restrictions 
or to forbid the actions.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
DM's Advice (Earl Harrison <harrison@comsys.net>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	It seems that I have created a stir with the two articles that I 
have written.  Let me explain my point of view on the articles before 
venturing into this month's article.
	I did not mean for the kobold lair to be taken as  a first or even 
a 4th level dungeon.  The article was geared towards the higher levels to 
give those adventurers something to do.  There are enough hard monsters 
out there for the characters to fight, but given the chance to fight a 
measly kobold at such a high level most players will jump at the chance.  
When they get pummeled by the horde of kobolds in that lair they will 
think twice the next time you mention the kobold lair.  The lair that I 
had written about could be used for the low level characters but not 
with all of the traps and tricks that are in there.  Chop the number of 
kobolds down a bit also.  Don't use the 40-400 that the monster manual 
says to use.  Use less than 100 for the total kobold population of the 
lair.  As for the intelligence of the average kobold they should be as 
smart as the average city dweller or farmer.  They should be allowed the 
supplies that I mentioned.  They may not have the access that their human 
counterparts may have but they should have some access as limited as it 
might be.  
   	The dragon's lair has not had that much impact on most people so I 
will leave it alone and let it stand by itself.  The dragon, as I stated 
before, should be the most fearsome monster that the players ever come 
across.  They should remember that adventure for years to come.  If they 
do not they YOU have not played the dragon as well as he or she should 
have been played.  The dragon will not always fight the players, even 
reds can be talked with.  My idea only helps the DM out with letting the 
dragon stay alive a little longer to give the players something to fight 
for.  Remember to that the players will be getting alot of gold, magic 
items and maybe an artifact or two, so don't just let the players walk 
in there and slaughter the dragon.  Make him a very formiable opponent.  
Kill the players if you have to to make them respect the dragon and maybe 
make them want to come back and fight him again!

Now on with the show!!

	How many times have your players built up a character, only to be 
more powerful than any creature in the books.  It is kind of hard to 
challenge those characters.  How many monsters do you have to put up 
against him/her to get even 1 hit point taken away from the character 
only to have them get it back with some sort of magic.  How many hits 
does it take for that character to kill even the most powerful NPC or 
monster that you have.  Have you ever created a module that took you 
several weeks to design, putting together the maps and player handouts 
only to have the party destroy it in just a matter of a few hours on 
that Saturday afternoon.  Remember how you felt when the bad guy at the 
end just fell like he was nothing!  Well stick around a few minutes and 
listen to the tales that I am about to tell you.
	Most of the games written out there challenge the CHARACTERS and 
not the PLAYERS.  Yes that is right, think about it.  The players just 
have to simply play their characters and they will survive most any game 
out there.  But the objective here is to challenge the PLAYERS!!  How 
often do your players check their barbarians back protection? How often 
does he check for illusions?  I bet most players out there do not check 
for these things every round like they are supposed to.  Have a fight 
break out behind the characters and get surprise on them and the first 
round of attacks before they even know what hit them.  If the other party 
has multiple attacks don't use all of them on attacks, how about running 
around a corner and waiting until the party comes after them.  Aha! 
Another free round of attacks.  That is two rounds of attacks and the bad 
guys have not even had to defend themselves yet.  How about a thief with 
an illusion on him to make the party think he is a peasent, when really 
he is picking their pockets. Taking all of their small items such as 
magic wands, daggers and even bags of holding.  Why stop at these things 
make the party think that they are in no danger and then spring a few 
spells on them.  Saving throws get in the way of most spells but not if 
the spells were aimed at the area they are in or on the weapons that they 
have.  Imagine a mage with a crystalbrittle spell and an animate object 
spell.  What will your players think of fighting their own weapons only 
to have them shatter like glass at the first hit.  Looks like they just 
lost all of those magic weapons.  I know magical items get a saving throw 
too, but this save is a lot high and harder to make than the one they 
would have to roll if the spell was cast upon them.  Has anyone thought 
about using drugs in their campaign?  I didn't think so.  Getting the 
CHARACTERS hooked on some drug should be an easy task and then the 
character is an easy target when he is under the influence of the drug.  
NOTE THAT I DO NOT CONDONE THE USE OF DRUGS BY PLAYERS OR DMs BUT AS 
CHARACTERS WHY NOT?  I would like some comment on this subject if any are 
willing to give it.
	Traps are another situation that some players do not check for all 
of the time.  Most players do not check for traps every little step they 
take.  If you are going to use traps have the trap be a multiple trap.  
Sort of like the board game "Mouse Trap".  Some of my favorite traps are:
    *  Have an Oytugh give the character a disease: AIDS and then the 
players are attacked by a mummy, which ages the character. He dies of 
full blown AIDS.
    *  An incindary cloud is in the hallway.  A zombie with a lit torch 
is hiding in a secret compartment just around the bend from where the 
characters are.  When they enter the cloud the zombie is triggered to 
come out and walk around the bend.
    *  a black cat sits on the bed of a mage's chamber with a spell book 
lying beside him.  The book has a polymorph spell cast onto it when 
someone reads it they are transformed into a goldfish which the cat 
immediately gobbles up when the transformation is done.
    *  Putting a cursed item somewhere only to have it activate when the 
party get near it.  "A Rod of Cancellation that falls", a trigger that 
moves the Demi-Lich just out of striking distance of the party.

	As you can see you can be as creative as you like with multiple 
traps.  These are just a few of the hundreds or thousands of ideas that 
any DM can come up with if they only try.  I would be interested in 
seeing some of the traps that you can come up with.  Just e-mail them to 
me.  I should be able to come up with a few more if given the time and 
motivation.
	Taking your players to another plane without telling them always 
confuses things.  The farther out into the planes that the players get 
the less magic they have.  If they go 3 planes out then that +5 broad 
sword they had is now only a +2 broad sword.  The monsters out there are 
even more deadly.  The Githyanki for instance are a very deadly creature 
when not found on the prime material plane.  About 10-15 of these can 
sure wreck havoc on a group of players not expecting to find githyankis 
on the prime.  Little do they know that they are no longer on that plane.  
Magic spells are another thing all together.  Some don't work on some 
planes and others work better.  Have some plane traveler come up with 
some water from the river Styx and give it or throw it on the characters.  
They won't even remember who did it let alone try and kill the person.  
Heck, they just might lose an item or two.
	Artifacts are another thing to.  If you give a powerful character 
one make sure that you have the means of taking it back from them.  
Having a king or mayor demand it from the players may not be enough to 
get it from them.  you may have to take it by force, which will be a very 
tough undertaking.  The artifact makes the party twice as powerful as 
they once were.
	One other thing that you might try to do to your players and that 
is to treat the game you are DMing as a Mario Brothers type video game.  
This may sound crazy but just follow me.  On the video game you have to 
beat several monsters, avoid the traps, solve the puzzles and then beat 
the bad guy at the end before you go to the next level.  Hey, this sounds 
like an AD&D game to me.  The puzzles part is a bit tricky to do.  The 
trick here is to give certain clues to an NPC that the players would 
otherwise not talk to.  The only way to get to the bottom of the 10 level 
dungeon is to find the secret door that leads down there and the only 
person that knows where it is is the peasant that was asking for a few 
copper pieces at the main gate.  You know the one that the players either 
killed or just snubbed off.  Now he may or may not want to give that 
information to the players anymore, or he may ask for several platinum 
pieces to give up the information that the players now want from him.
	Have the players try and acquire several pieces to a larger item.  
Such as TSR's Rod of Seven Parts.  Maybe this is the only way into the 
last level of the dungeon or the key into the crypt of the evil mummy.  
Aquiring several scrolls for the local cleric and then a task or two for 
the blacksmith or local guilds might also slow down the players for 
several games and frustrate them a bit.  Try and get the players off 
track for a gaming session or two might also be the trick to drop their 
guard and then spring the monsters on them when they are not looking for 
a fight.
	You might even trick them into doing something evil for the bad 
guys and have to get out of trouble with the town that they are in.  
Making your players run from the law is always exiciting for the DM.  
News of a new evil roaming the area will travel faster than the players 
can.  The new towns will always be watching for them to come to the town 
and buy provisions.  Your players will have to come to a town sooner or 
later to restock on food, water, new weapons and if you use them, spell 
components.  It will will be very hard to find all of this stuff out in 
the wilds of the dungeons and humanoid villages.  If they find this stuff 
in the villages and they are running from the law chances are this small 
village may have heard of them and will either not sell them the stuff or 
make it very very hard for them to purchase it.  They might even stall 
the players long enough for a small band of the sheriff's men to come and 
take them back to the town where they commetted their criminal acts.  The 
players would not dare to fight the sheriff's men again would they?  Also 
you will have to watch out for bounty hunters and other adventuring 
parties that might want to ccollect the reward for bringing in these evil 
creatures!


	One last thing that always gets to the players and that is to make 
them use all of the abilities of their characters.  If ythey do not use 
them then make it extremely hard to complete the game that you have 
created for them.  Plan ahead.  If you know that there will be more than 
one thief in the party then have multiple traps in the corridors and 
roadways.  If one thief does not do his job then the whole party suffers 
by falling into the trap that you have devised.  If there are alot of 
fighters in the group then have a few extra monsters roaming around. 
Even make the random encounters more frequent or make them harder.  If 
you have a mage or cleric with an unusual spell or two then have an 
encounter where the only way to get thru it is for the mage or cleric to 
use that spell.  Take for instance the Bless spell.  Most clerics take 
this spell but how often do you have a chance to use it.  Most high level 
clerics may have it but have long since forgotten what the spell does 
anymore.  Make them use the spell that they have.  If you want to 
eliminate the magic from tyour adventure, have a few encounters where 
they have to use alot of spells to get thru it.  In order to do this the 
monsters have to be a bit more powerful than the fighters in the group.  
This forces the mages and clerics to use up their spells more quickly.  
The next party member to mention is the psionicist.  This character at 
very high levels can be a very dangerous one.  In order to challenge the 
player of one of these characters is to put some psionic monsters in the 
game.  Mind Flayers and Thought Eaters are tremendous to use against a 
single psionicist.  If you allow more than one psionicist in a group then 
you may have a problem dealing with them.  Just make sure you make the 
psionicist roll his ability checks and deduct PSPs after he has used an 
ability.  Getting PSPs back should be a very hard task also.  The only 
way to gain PSPs is with rest.  The last characters that!
	I am going to mention are the monks and ninjas.  I usually group 
these two together simply because they both are weak as low level 
characters and get very powerful at higher levels.  The DM may be 
challenged himself to get these characters in trouble.  The thing to do 
to these characters is make the player use the abilities of these 
characters almost every round or two while in a dungeon or city 
adventure.  City adventures are best suited for these two characters.  
Dungeons don't suit these characters very well and most players could do 
better than to bring them onto a dungeon adventure.  Solo adventures 
inside the main campaign are well suited for these characters.  Make them 
go it alone so as to get them away from the rest of the party.  Most of 
the time these guys are the main fighting force for the party when they 
reach the higher levels.  So if you can get them away from the rest of 
the group you can have more fun with either the solo adventure or the 
group.
	High level characters should never be allowed to just rest.  Keep 
the players guessing what you are doing.  Make them set up a strategic 
camp.  Keeping watch and traps around the camp will usually keep most 
monsters away.  If only all monsters were not on the ground.  Some 
monsters fly.  Swooping attacks are usually very hard for most players.  
They are simply not ready for an air-based attack.  Melee weapons no 
longer work for these types of encounters.  If a monster can cast spells 
and can also fly then why not give him the silence spell and make the 
swooping attack a surprise attack from behind.  If a couple of characters 
are taken into the air, shaken up a bit, losing weapons and items, and 
dropped back onto the ground.  All before the party has a chance to get 
ready for the attack.  These types of attacks can only be random 
encounters or planned attacks trying to get a particular item from the 
party.  Be creative with this one. 
	As I stated before when you are DMing a very high level game it is 
very easy to get caught up in the trap of just challenging the 
characters and not the players.  The only way to get at the characters is 
to get at the players first.  Challange their minds not their paperwork.  
A character is very durable. Most players are not.  Most of them know all 
of the rules but cannot role-play very well. I have been Dming for better 
than 10 years and the easist games to DM is the ones that make it harder 
on the players than it does on the characters.  For my next article or 
two I wound like them to come from every one else.  E-Mail me and tell me
what you would like to see and I will try to do it or get a little help 
from my group and then put it to print.  What I would like is some of 
your greatest adventure stories.  I have a few that you may find amusing 
and a few that you may find a bit weird.  Send in your traps, adventure 
stories or 5-minute adventures and see if your games are anything like 
ours.  I will put a few of mine in there to make it more interesting.

Until next time, Earl Harrison <harrison@comsys.net>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Warring In The Forgotten Realms (Dana Drury <dana@zip.com.au>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	In the last article I looked at War and its often overlooked 
importance in FRPG's.  This article centered around the concept of war 
and its varying uses in a Fantasy Campaign. I will again stress that it 
isn't a quick fix. For it to work it requires some thought and sweat...
	If you missed it for some reason you can get it off me (my address 
is at the top).
	Continuing on from the last piece the next equally important 
decision to make about the war is -

Where will the war take place?
	Whether you do the last point first (How large will the war be) or 
this point doesn't matter. I find working out how large I'm going to make 
a war helps me to work out its staging area. It may differ from person to 
person but that's just me. 
	Generally the larger the war the more important the place will 
become.  As this is a role playing world you have to make the PC's 
interested not just have it as an occurrence . If you wish to shed some 
light on an area for some reason then a large "known" war could just be 
the thing however it is still up to you to get the characters there.  
This I will discuss later.
	Small wars are the perfect sounding board for a first time DM. 
They are easier to run and have less outside influence to deal with.  You 
can also introduce some foes that may become long standing ones and a 
bond may develop with the local folk.
	How big a war is doesn't generally make too much of a difference 
however I don't suggest you run out and try a war similar to the Tuigan 
Horde, unless you have had a bit of practice first because as they say 
"Practice Makes Perfect" and players can easily get killed off in a war, 
especially if they go into battle.
	Now that I have added a bit to the last article I will get on with 
this one.  Where the war takes place is a vital factor. Will it be a back 
water war? In some small obscure barony that no one has heard off or will 
it be closer to home, and pose a much more serious threat ? 
	For instance, Karameikos in Mystara is not likely to be subjected 
to a full scale war however a disgruntled group of Drow (or Dark Elves as 
they are in Mystara) may come through the mountains from the north. The 
players are in a small town at the time and have to help lead the local 
unorganized malita against these invaders, or hold them back till help 
arrives etc. 
	The FR will only be susceptible to small scale skirmishes with out 
it becoming an international incident, although many of the areas to the 
south (near the Great Rift) are perfect for staging a larger war.
	One other unique way of creating a war is if the players are evil 
and have a reputation, they may be asked to help the denizens of the 
Underdark to help attack a city/village/town. 
	As I mentioned, the world of Ravenloft almost stops wars from 
occurring however local townsfolk may have had enough and forget there 
fear of death to challenge the Lord. If this happens it may be the 
perfect way to remove one of the small realms from Ravenloft if this 
needs to be the case. I Personally wouldn't recommend such an action, 
Ravenloft isn't really a place of mighty hero's atop a mountain of dead 
Yugloth, or Dragons frying helpless spearmen or. well you get the 
picture. 
	Unfortunately my Fantasy Role Playing is Limited to Palladiums RPG, 
AD&D and D&D. However much of this applies to other games such as Earth 
Dawn, Dangerous Journeys, GURPS and Warhammer FRPG. (Thus the examples)
	Once you have the place in which the war is set it would be best to 
work on why the war occurred, may ask your self -

What is the reason behind the war? Who started it and why? When did it 
begin?
	There are many reasons wars are started, most of them are over land 
claims, which may be the enemy has wandered in and claimed the land. 
There can be other acceptable reasons, these can range from retaliation 
for some action, trying to rescue someone or the Lord was insulted by the 
other Lord/Baron. On the other hand it doesn't even have to involve a 
human enemy. Orcs will just attack because they hate humans and other 
races attack out of necessity. (Such as a Unicorn will attack people who 
hurt forest areas.)
	Dwarves will happily slay Goblins and Ogres will slay each other. 
If any of you have read the book "The Legacy" by R.A. Salvatore will know 
what I am talking about. If not, an extended attack occurred between a 
group dwarves and tribe of goblins, Although it started there and ended 
there, war may have broken out if a larger tribe had existed.  
	I warn you however, Orcs generally attack as a large tribe, they 
are usually never gathered into an "Army" unless the whole of the Orc 
species are at risk or there is a higher power governing them. The later 
being the most common case respectively. 
	Working out when the war begun also helps flesh out adventure 
possibilities. Many wars are fought over a long time, if this is the case 
(such as a religious war) then the players impact "may" not make that 
much of a difference, it may win a battle or two but far from the winning 
the war. 
	A newly generated war is easier to stop with players involvement 
and there are less feelings of hate on both side compared with a 
religious war (to a degree). If the players can make a difference then 
they will feel a sense of accomplishment. The players may even be the 
cause of the war!
	I will leave the idea behind the war up to you, but you do get the 
generally gist of things (don't you?). It always helps to know when the 
war started. The reason being? Well setting the scene is very important 
in a war -
	You wander slowly down the dirt road, around you lie the fallen 
bodies of soldiers draped in awkward positions. Smoke rises from the huts 
to the back and the odd moan comes from the left and right making you 
wary of the carnage around you. Tired villagers tend to the wounded. 
They are obviously used to this war. Such a scene must be common place.
	If the war had just started then the Villagers would be in shambles 
not knowing what was happening which may provide some interesting 
challenges for the players. They may be attacked, asked for help or 
worse. 
	If the war is a long drawn out one, villagers may be on a exodus 
away from the kingdom. 
	A lot of ground has been covered in this article. I am trying to 
keep the information generic thus there are not too many specific 
examples, however as I mentioned last issue, if there is interest then 
email me with your preferences at dana@zipper.zip.com.au, and I will try 
and include a useable example. I have received some material that will 
provide useful to many players out there, it will be coming up in later 
articles. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Amber campaign: The Shadows of Truth 
	(Sean Pagliarulo <71062.3412@compuserve.com>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	I am interested in starting a long term Amber campaign, using a 
local variant of  the Amber Diceless game system.  There are a few 
philosophical ideas and other considerations I wish to discuss so 
everyone will know where I am coming from and trying to take the game.
	First and foremost I'm  looking for dedicated players who will post 
at least twice a week.  Next, they must be interested in helping to 
create an interactive campaign world.  Amber is just too darn big for 
any one person to define all aspects of it, so I will be looking for and 
demanding input from my players to help me. To that end, I ask that 
every person who submits a character proposal include at least one world 
description. The description need not be complete or even very thorough, 
but the more information I am given the better I can help simulate that 
shadow. You may submit more than one, and it can be as brief as you wish, 
for example: "I think you should have a shadow that is the Planet of the 
Apes series."  That statement alone tells me enough to go and run that 
world.  While it does not describe all that could be said,there is 
enough atmosphere to make it playable.
	I feel that any game world, novel, movie, or anything else is a 
viable shadow world.  So I will be using some of the existing ones, such 
as Shadowrun, Vampire, Blood Shadows, Castle Falkenstein, and others. 
Some will be unique, but in all cases the story is what will drive the 
situations.  The characters and their interaction will define what is 
important.
	A note on the importance of characters and their interactions. I am
changing the nature of the Amber view point.  The (POINT- OR POWER)gap 
between Human, Chaosian, Amberite, and Ranked individuals will be 
narrower.  The frequency of meeting with more powerful adversaries will 
be much greater.  In short I am drawing the characters down from 
Superhero status, to  powerful Hero status.  I wish to reintroduce the 
factor of risk and uncertainty that seems slightly absent from some 
Amber games.  Now I am not saying that Amberites are not damn hard to 
kill.  This game will be  based on exploration and interaction rather 
than the Familial competition ethic that is prevalent in the books. 
	The Shadow dwellers will be more important due to the changes I 
have wrought.  You will never be sure that the person that you are 
dealing with is not another Amberite, a Chaosian, or really powerful 
Shadow dweller.  So I wish to have all players make the Shadow Dwellers 
important to their characters.  Now that can be done in a couple of 
ways-- no, it does not mean that you must love them. You could be the 
quintessential hero and regard every life as important or you could 
prefer to be worshipped, andthink that every shadow dweller is merely a 
means to an end.  There are many other ways to handle it, and I trust 
you to make them important.
	The Auction is also being changed.  I will ask for a single bid 
from each character for each attribute. Undoubtedly there will be some 
characters who desire a #1 for their character conception, that is fine, 
but remember that you are only #1 of your generation, there will be 
plenty of others who are above and below you. The primary reason for 
this, is to offer me as many options as possible as a game master, and 
allow players to enter the game late.
	Game play will also be different than some of the other games you 
may have played.  First it is an on-line game, which is more like 
creating an interactive novel than role-playing. Next all messages will 
go through me, and then back out to the players.  While at first glance 
that seems a bit piggy of me, there are several very good reasons for it. 
This will enable me to add in description that shows a character's 
personal outlook. So the same thing will look different to characters 
with different levels of Good and Bad stuff.  Another good reason is the 
uncertainty of Trump Contact. Another is the mere logistical element of 
being sure who is doing what, since sometimes people forget to CC the gm 
when things get hot and heavy.  A note here, some players prefer to 
include their characters thoughts when doing a message to give it 
context, others prefer not.  It is up to you, but since I am the clearing 
house for all messages, I need to know what you would like sent on to 
others.  So inform me with [OOC: ] Out of Character comments above or 
below the passage so I know what to do. I just need some sort of context 
to be able to comfortably handle the message traffic.
	A note on game related information.  First I don't require anyone 
to own the Amber role-playing system, I can explain it in just a few 
messages.  Next Magic will not be run exactly like it is in the rule 
book.  Magic will be much more free form, and slightly quicker.  While 
the maintenance of spells will still be a consideration, your character 
could possibly  have a racked spell and cast it in Classic Fantasy style. 
But I will use the Steven Brust adage: A knife is quicker than a 
sorcerers spell. Or something like that. The exact quote is "A knife 
between a sorceror's shoulder blades will severely cramp his style.", 
but I changed it to fit my game a little better. So I ask that all who 
take Sorcery, Conjuration and or Power Words focus on the magic side of 
their characters.  Talk to me about the nature of magic for the 
character.  Does the character require Gestures, Incantation, or other 
forms of foci?  I will certainly ask questions if you don't tell me what 
I need to know.  
    	Also about Conjuration and Power words.  Both are the same cost as 
in the Amber game book, but their nature will be more flexible. Note that 
since Sorcery is slightly faster, especially with hung spells, that Power 
words are not quite as crucial.  Sorcery can be used to combat Sorcery 
with effectiveness.
	Next on game stuff, every character may have a {Personal????} Trump 
deck, by merely paying the two points to have one.  The characters will 
be at Corwin's new Pattern. And contact with Amber is nonexistent, though 
there is a place near Chaos like the courts called the Gates of Never.  
Feel free to come up with new powers and ask about them, the more the 
merrier, after all it is an infinite universe out there.  The game will 
be about personal and group oriented adventure, exploration and 
discovery. A whole new set of shadows were created when Corwin drew his 
Pattern, and everyone is free to explore them. 
	Another comment on the Amber system.  Skills are considered 
freebies, because Amberites are basically immortal, there is very little 
reason why you cant have your character know whatever you want them to. 
But the way I want to handle this, is in your character background.  And 
rather than have a player list every little skill, I would prefer to have 
professions or experiences listed.  For example if a character was a 
doctor on Shadow Earth (present day medicine) for twenty years, then when 
dealing with situations, pretty much anything that a doctor from our 
world would know could be justified. Obviously the final call will be on 
my end, but I am looking for more control and creation from the players, 
than in some other games, so you will be given more latitude.  Just keep 
you character in perspective when thinking about its interactions.
	Finally on the points...  Every player will have 150 points to 
spend on their character.  This may seem like a lot, but I am asking for 
quite a bit of input from each of you, and not allowing any other form 
of personal contribution (at least for points). Also, every character 
may have the Pattern free, yes free. That means that if you take Basic 
Pattern Imprint it costs nothing (and Advanced is only twenty-five more 
points), but if you don't take it for your character, your character 
gains nothing. No Pattern imprint, no additional points.  
	Every player should try and answer some basic questions in their 
character background, and in the world descriptions you create.  
Remember the more information I receive the better I will be able to work 
with your character, or shadow.
    	Goals are important for a character.  What drives him or her?
    	What is important to your character?
    	What kinds of places has he or she visited?
   	Answer any of the Character Quiz questions that sound appropriate 
to you. 
    	Do you want to create a home shadow with another player (not 
necessarily spending points, but working with someone else) to have a 
close knit history?
    	Do you want to have close ties with another player character?  
Close full brothers, sisters, etc... (Note you don't have to have a 
friend playing in the game, if you mark this, I can pair you up with 
someone else who is interested in the same thing.  Brother and sister 
relationships can be great grist for the role-playing mill.)
    	Are you included in any public trump decks?  If not, why not? 
(Unless a really good reason is given, since you are all Corwin's 
children, you will exist in the standard Trump deck that everyone 
possesses.)
    	Describe your character's starting situation.
    	Remember that your character is immortal, and is likely to be with 
you for a long time.  Love your Character. Find your character's Focus, 
and finally write in character.  The whole process will be much better 
the more we stay in character.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Classified Advertisements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Chill RPG - The McIver Horror
Author: Thomas Deeny <fauxpas@cy-net.net>

"The McIver Horror" is an adventure played using Chill, Mayfair's horror
role-playing game.  Knowledge of Chill's game mechanics is not needed for
playing this PBeM game.  "The McIver Horror" takes place in present day
Oregon.  As a member of the secret organization of SAVE (Societas 
Argenti Viae Eternitata, or The Eternal Society of the Silver Way), you 
and your fellow SAVE envoys are to investigate strange occurrences in the 
small logging town of McIver, Oregon; determine if the Unknown is 
operating there; and take whatever steps is neccessary to stop it.  

For those of you unfamiliar with the atmosphere of Chill, it is similar 
to a really creepy X-Files episode, or almost any of numerous gothic 
horror novels or movies.  Anne Rice's _The Witching Hour_ and _Interview 
with the Vampire_, H.P. Lovecraft's horror stories (especially _The 
Dunwich Horror_ and _The Whisperer in the Darkness_), and _The 
Exorcist_ or _The Omen_ spring to mind.  _Army of Darkness_ and _Friday 
the 13th Part VII:  Jason Takes Manhattan_ don't.  Speaking of Anne 
Rice, her investigative group "The Talamasca" is very similar to 
Chill's SAVE.

There will be two turn/action deadlines per week, one on Tuesday
night/Wednesday morning at 2am and one on Saturday night/Sunday morning 
at 2am.  Collated GM turns will be distributed on Wednesday and Sunday 
by 10pm.  I estimate the game will last through the summer.

"The McIver Horror" was originally published in Chill's "Horrors of North
America" under a different name.  If you have played this adventure 
before, you are welcome to observe the game.  This adventure requires 
three to six SAVE envoys.

For more information or to sign up, please e-mail me at 
fauxpas@cy-net.net --> Please include "Chill:  " in your subject line.  

Subject: Swords & Magick Fantasy Role-Playing Game
Author: Geoff Bottone <cyrathax@usa.nai.net>

Brand new generic fantasy role-playing system without all the 
unnecessary junk.  Easy to learn.  150 page manual comes complete with 
everything that you need to run a one-time adventure or begin a 
campaign.  $12.00 plus $3.00 for shipping and handling.  Send checks 
only to GeoffQuest, PO Box 1359, Cheshire, CT 06410. Also, visit our web 
site at http://www.wp.com/90596/home.html

Subject: AD&D 2nd Edition - Game in Europe
Author: Denny<lstarker@venus.net>

Do you live in the Swizerland Co. IN area?  Do you want to be involved 
in an AD&D 2nd Edition game?  Can you make trips to Vevay every week or 
so?  Do you not mind Dennis Starker being your DM?  If you ansewered yes
to all of these questions, then e-mail me to get more info.  The campaign
will be set in the DragonLance world.  Very poor game environment until I
get a good set. Kender are allowed, Drow are not.

Subject: IRC Role-Playing
Author: D <arch@netjax.com>

                        For Unique and Exciting Role-Play
                             on the IRC's Dalnet,
                             You are Welcome in
                                Lord Corwen's
                                 #VALMORTHA
                 The game is role-play centered, not hack-n-slash.
                    If you're up to the challenge, seek us:  
                            weekdays btw 4 - 6pm cst 
                 weekends are sporadic, but usually btw 12-4pm cst 

Subject: IRC RPG Channel on Dalnet
Author: Greg Mann <lmann@netwalk.com>

		*****-IRC ROLE-PLAYERS-*****
If you're interested in getting into an online IRC campaign for any game,
drop Greg Mann a line at:
		        lmann@mail.netwalk.com

A channel for this purpose is already created on DalNet, and Greg is 
looking for players and game masters.  A bot is monitering the channel 
and provides dice rolling, social commands, security, and more.  SO IF 
YOU'RE INTERESTED, GO AHEAD AND CONTACT GREG TO SHOW YOUR INTEREST AND 
GET IN A CAMPAIGN!!!

Subject: PBEM Game
Author: Sean Pagliarulo <71062.3412@compuserve.com)

         Game Master: Sean Pagliarulo
       Gaming System: Amber
             Players: 5-15 depends 
     Number of Turns: N/A
Campaign Description: Long term campaign with dedicated players, set 
		      in Corwin's new Pattern.

Other Information:  (I am puting the finishing touches on a text based 
message that can fit here when it is done (probably next week sometime).  
It will include the philosophy behind the setup, and other basic 
information so that people can decide if they are interested.

Subject: MUSHES
Author: Hawk <hawk@tcd.net>

	MUSHes and MUDs are gaining in popularity.  Some are similar to 
something out of a Choose Your Own Adventure book.  Others provide a 
great Role-Playing experience.  One I'd like to bring to your attention 
is the Shadowrun MUSH.  It is by far the best I have seen.  There is a 
strong emphasis on Role-Playing, and less on actual combat.   This is 
partly because you must have a good Background for your character, and 
get approved by the staff.  If you play Shadowun, or like the idea of an 
awakened futuristic-world, this is a must try!  It is located at 
shadowrun.dnaco.net port: 4201 .  They also have a website located at
http://www.dnaco.net/~shadow/ .  -Hawk (hawk@tcd.net)

Subject: Dragon*Con
Author: <cmcdanie@mindspring.com>

Dragon*Con is a multi-genre science fiction convention which crosses over
into fantasy, gaming, and comics, with broad ranges which extend from
books, art, and film to computers, special effects, and music.

Our 1996 convention will take place June 20-23, 1996 at the Atlanta 
Hilton and Towers, Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel, and the Atlanta Civic 
Center.

Over 300 featured Guests include:

Mark Hamill  -  Star Wars' Luke Skywalker and  star of Origin Systems' 
Wing Commander series
David Prowse  -  Star Wars' Darth Vader
Vincent Perez  -  Star of the forthcoming The Crow: City of Angels
Timothy Leary  -  Pop cultural icon
Donald Schmitt   -  UFO Crash at Roswell Investigator and Author
John Kricfalusi   -  Animator and Creator of Ren & Stimpy
Kevin Smith  -  Writer / Director of Clerks and Mallrats
Richard "Lord British" Garriott  -  Creator of the Ultima games
Al Feldstein  -  Creator of Mad Magazine and Tales from the Crypt
Steve Sansweet  -  Ambassador to Lucasfilm
Joseph Peter Hale  -  NASA Virtual Reality Director
Richard Hatch  -  Battlestar Galactica's Apollo
Mark Goddard  -  Lost in Space's Major Don West
Lloyd Kaufman   -  President of Troma Films

Writers / Editors include:

Kevin J. Anderson - X-Files and Star Wars Bestselling Author and Editor
C.J. Cherryh - Multiple Hugo Winning Author of Cuckoo's Egg and Cyteen
Storm Constantine - British Author of the Wraeththu Trilogy
Charles L. Grant - Author of two X-Files and many Horror Novels
Patricia Kennealy-Morrison - Author of the Keltiad series and Strange 
	Days
Rudy Rucker - Cyberpunk Forefather crossing SF, Science, and Math
R.A. Salvatore - Bestselling Author of The Legacy and The Halfling's Gem
R.U. Sirius - Founder of Mondo 2000 & author of The Cyberpunk Handbook
John Shirley - Screenwriter of The Crow and VR5 and Cyberpunk Writer
Michael Stackpole - Star Wars Author and Game / Computer Designer
Bruce Sterling - Author, Cyberpunk and Hacker Extraordinaire
Robert Anton Wilson - Illuminatus Trilogy and Schroedinger's Cat Author

Comics Writers and Artists include:

Chris Claremont - A decade of Uncanny X-Men and now Sovereign Seven
Peter David - Top Comics Writer and Babylon 5 Screenwriter
Neil Gaiman - Writer of The Sandman and Screenwriter of Neverwhere
Kevin Nowlan - Artist of WildC.A.T.S. and Batman: Black and White
James O'Barr - Writer, Artist, and Creator of The Crow
P. Craig Russell - Artist of Darkhorse's Star Wars and Topps' Elric
Mark Schultz - Writer, Artist, and Creator of Cadillacs & Dinosaurs
Jeff Smith - Writer, Artist, and Creator of Bone
William Stout - America's #1 Dinosaur Illustrator
Charles Vess - Sandman Illustrator and Creator of Ballads and Sages
Reed Waller - Writer, Artist, and Creator of Omaha, The Cat Dancer
Robt. Williams - Internationally Renowned Pop Culture Artist

and many, many more!

Events and Activities include:

Fourteen Programming Tracks (including complete
  tracks dedicated to: Space, Science, Writing,
  Star Wars, Star Trek, X-Files, Pern, Children,
  Queen's Own, and Filk)
Huge Dealers Room (over 400 tables and booths) Costume Contest (with
seating for 5,000)
Tournament and Open Gaming (over 500 events)
Live Role-Playing (Vampire and Dark Confrontation)
Robot Battles (with Robot Wars' Mark Thorpe)
Art Show and Print Shop (larger than in 1995!)
Three Video Rooms (Japanimation and Psychotronic)
Live Concerts and Dances (with GWAR Sat. night!)

Discount hotel space is still available (at the flat rate of $93/night 
for 1 to 4 guests).  You can zoom directly from the Atlanta Airport to
Dragon*Con via Atlanta's Rapid Rail System for only $1.50.

Advance Memberships are $50 for all four days ($60 at the door).  Daily
Memberships are available for $25 (or $20 on Sunday).  4-Day Advance
Memberships may be reserved now though Ticketmaster at (404) 249-6400.

Please e-mail us (digest@dragoncon.org) for your free 24-page update
(delivered via first class snail) or check out our web site at:

          http://www.dragoncon.org

For additional info, please e-mail us or contact our office, Monday -
Friday from 8:30 - 5:00 at (770) 925-0115.  Our 24-hour info and Fax line
is (770) 623-6321.  You can receive Program Book advertising info from
Stuart Hellinger (sch@panix.com).