IRPS NEWSLETTER 
January 2, 1996
Issue #2

Table of Contents:

Club Status Report
Internet Relay Chat (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)
Monthly Columns
   The Crypt of Philodox (Terry A. Lugviel <tlugvil@grfn.org>)
   CCGs vs RPGs (Harold N. MacAulay <leslie@isn.net>)
   Net Chat (Craig Janssen <daili@gate.net>)
   Daili's Collectibles - Informational (Craig Janssen <daili@gate.net>)
   Roles & Rolls (Eduard W. Lohmann <lohmann@fwi.uva.nl>)
   In Long Eons - Q&A's (Barbara Johnson-Haddad <bhaddad@lunacity.com>)
   James's Brain Dump (James Ducan <jduncan@hawk.igs.net>)
   Magic Item Shop (Dave Mavretic (davem1@island.microserve.com)>
   On the Shoulders of Giants <Bruce Sheffer (bsheffer@arthritis.org)>

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Club Status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The club is currently doing fine and as of January 31, 1996 there are
currently 330 members.  There are also several departments in the Secretary's
command which remain unfilled and members are needed to fill positions.
	The Secretary currently has 3 deparments, each with it's own unique
tasks and goals.  Each of these three departments will consist of department
heads and people in the department.  The people in the department are 
answerable to the department head, the department head is answerable to the 
Secretary, and the Secretary is answerable to the President which gives an 
effective chain of command system for IRPS.
	The three departments are:

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
   Department of Membership Management (department head found)
   Department of Newsletter Publication (department head found)
   Department of Entertainment
	Subdepartment CCG
	Subdepartment RPG
	Subdepartment PBEMs (department head found)

	With all this said and done, we have decided to eliminate the officer
position of Entertainment Officer turn it into a department instead.  Akilesh
Deperalta now heads the office of the Secretary.  If you are interested in
working for one of the departments e-mail Akilesh Deperalta (adep@loop.com) 
with information about yourself.  Also, if you would like to be a department 
head of one of the open departments talk to Akilesh.
	Currently the only Department which has members in it is the 
Department of Newsletter Publication.  The members of that department are the 
monthly columnists of the IRPS Newsletter.
	There are also two other departments but instead of being a clerical 
department, they're instead a presidental departments with the department 
heads being directly answerable to the president.  These two departments are:

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
   Department of Web Resources (department head found)
   Department of Internal Activities

	One of them is the Department of Web Resources.  Currently there is a 
department head but there are no members to assist and this department is in 
great need of department members.  Duties in this department range from 
gathering new Internet Role-Playing pages to collecting various 
Icons/Pictures for our pages and other members pages.  If you are interested 
in joining this department contact Jacques Brunswick 
(jacquesb@worldaccess.nl) for further information.
	The other one is the Department of Internal Activities.  Duties in 
here include maintaining IRC channels and searching for ways to increase club
activity.  If you're interested in this department contact Michael Popovich
(cad@digital.net) for further information.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Internet Relay Chat (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Hello everyone, as some of you know, there is a program called IRC 
which stands for Internet Relay Chat.  It allows for users all over the world 
to chat with each other by using a keyboard as a means of communication.  In 
IRC, people can chat together in channels where 1 person to 100+ people can 
gather and talk with each other about specific subjects.
	In order to run IRC you need an IRC Client program such as mIRC or
WSIRC.  They are shareware programs and can be downloaded from the Internet.
I recommend that you use mIRC 3.92 (assuming you're running windows) but any 
other client program can be used.  But there are various other IRC shareware
programs out on the net.
	Once you get the program you will have to decide on which IRC "net" 
you would like to go and chat in.  There are currently 2 large nets; Efnet 
and Undernet.  IRPS has channels (#IRPS) in both nets so it doesn't matter 
which net you go to.  It's all a matter of preference.  If you go to 
Undernet you can meet me (Snorkel) but if you go to Efnet you can meet Vice 
President Craig Janssen (NetFlame) and Secretary Akilesh Deperalta 
(LordMagus).
	I would like to thank Thomas Charron <twolf@empire.net> for running a
bot for the Internet Role-Playing Society.  We greatly appreciate it.
	We are currently thinking about holding online meetings in #IRPS 
where members could discuss a variety of issuses ranging from daily role-
playing news to holding officer elections there.
	There are other great role-playing channels on the net such as #AD&D 
and #mtg.  #AD&D frequently holds online games since there is a bot capable 
of simulating dicerolls (noppa).  IRC is a really great experience and we 
encourage all of you to participate.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Crypt of Philodox (Terry A. Lugviel <tlugvi1@grfn.org>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ELEMENTS OF HORROR - THE BASICS, PART 1
	Any GM or player can tell you that the key to a successful campaign 
lies not in the rules of the game system, but in the people who play it.  
This is especially true for a horror campaign.  What you do and don't do can 
make or break a horror story no matter how good the game system is.        
	To prevent this from happening in your campaign, I've broken down the 
elements of horror into two parts.  The first part, this article, will give 
you the basic elements you need to run a horror campaign.  The second part, 
which will appear next month, will be focused on techniques you can use when 
designing you own adventures.        
	This is directed more toward newcomers to the world of horror.  It's 
intended for those who want to add elements of horror to a non-horror 
campaign and to those who want play a horror campaign but don't know where 
to start.  Even experienced players and GMs may find something new as well 
as just refreshing their memories.
	What follows is a generalized breakdown of what horror is and isn't, 
as well as what it needs and doesn't need.  Some of this may tie in with 
next months column, but I put it here because of it's relavancy to the text.  
Let's start with what horror is.

HORROR BY DEFINITION             
	All of us have our own perception of the world.  And while each of us 
perceives everything slightly different we share certain common beliefs.  The 
"common" beliefs are things like gravity, the danger of nuclear energy, and 
other stuff as well.  We also have beliefs that we don't all share, such as 
religion, politics, and what food tastes best.        
	What we believe is what we use to define our reality.  And how we 
view that reality influences most of our choices.  So, what does reality have 
to do with horror?  Well, horror is the blatant bending of reality which 
results in the cause of fear and terror.  Note the fear and terror part.  
There are times that reality's laws could be broken down which result in 
amazement and wonder and not cause fear.        
	Imagine waking up one morning and discovering that everything you 
believed in was nothing but a lie.  Faith was pointless and hope is lost.  
Everything that makes you who you are is fake.  This would cause fear and 
uncertainty in most of us and that fear and uncertainty is the true essence 
of horror.        
	H.P. Lovecraft put it best when he wrote "The true weird tale has 
something more than secret murder, bloody bones, or a sheeted form clanking 
chains according to rule. A certain atmosphere of breathless and inexplicable 
dread of outer, unknown forces must be present; and there must be a hint...of 
that most terrible conception of the human brain - a malign and particular 
suspension or defeat of the fixed laws of Nature which are our only safeguard 
against the assaults of chaos and the demons of unplumbed space."        
	Those are true words.  But note that he mentioned only a hint need be 
present.  The most terrible forms of horror come when reality starts breaking 
down one step at a time............        
	Now, on with some of the basic ideals that are needed to build a 
strong horror game on.  The first of them is description.

EVERYTHING NEEDS A DESCRIPTION
	I can't emphasize this one enough.  Horror, especially in a RPG, is 
dependant upon description.  This includes everything from the gameworld's 
environment to the people, places, and things within that environment.  The 
mood of the game depends on how you describe everything.  How you describe 
something is just as important as what you're describing.  Here's a few 
things to keep in mind.
	First, everything in a horror campaign seems darker and more 
sinister.  Dark clouds blanket the sky most of the time and rain falls more 
often than not.  Thunderstorms happen more frequently.  Every wind brings 
with it a haunting melody of howls.  Lights seem dimmer and candles always 
flicker.  Shadows grow longer and appear to move of their own accord.  People 
are not as friendly, preferring to remain indoors.  Animals aren't as 
friendly either. Buildings are older, uglier.  Everywhere you turn you'd 
swear there's a cemetery or abandoned house.
	Of course, things aren't really that much different.  They just 
appear to be.  It justs seem like all the bad things happen at night.  The 
sun still shines and people still have their daily routines. The darkness is 
just an illusion.  This illusion can add depth and believability to the game.  
How the PCs see something can determine how they react.  And everyone sees 
the same thing a little differently.
	Second, never describe the same thing the same way twice.  That is if 
you can avoid it.  Use different adjetives or synonyms every time you 
describe something.  Don't always call a ghost a ghost.  You can call it a 
ghost, an apparition, a wraith, a spirit, a phantom, etc.  Not only does this 
enhance the mood, but it can keep the characters from guessing the true 
nature of what they see.  Keep a dictionary or thesaurus handy to make it 
easier.
	H.P. Lovecraft was a master of description.  He'd add a true element 
of horror to his stories by using adjetives that most common people didn't 
even understand.  A lot of them were scientific terms, but they still worked.

EVERYTHING MUST BE UNIQUE
	The standard in a horror game is that there are no standards.  
Everything is unique.  No two PCs are the same and no two vampires are the 
same either.  By making everything unique you avoid the repetitious hum drum 
of the typical cliche.  This can be done for NPCs, monsters, magic spells and 
items, and even mundane items.  And don't leave out plot lines, 
circumstances, or encounters either.
	Doing this is easy enough.  All you have to do is alter one or two 
subtle statistics to make it different.  For example, all magic swords could 
have a soft glow, but each one could glow a different color.  All books could 
be printed in a different style or bound in a different material.  All 
vampires have slightly different immunities and vulnerabilities.  The way a 
magic spell looks and functions could be dependant on the personality of 
whoever casts it.
	Along with everything having to be unique, everything must also have 
a purpose for being there.  The PCs always have a purpose, so should 
everything else.  By purpose I mean a reason.  Nevery put anything in your 
story just for the sake of having it there.  Why is it there?  How did it get 
there?  What function did it serve?  What function does it serve now?  
Answering these questions can make a horror campaign rich with depth and 
detail.  It also allows you to use the same concepts in different ways.
	Note that this almost eliminates random treasure and monster 
encounters.  If you rely on them, then be prepared to come up with an 
explantion for why it's there and what makes it unique. The quality of what 
you put into your stories is far more important than quantity.
	This way, when the PCs start wondering why there are so many pink 
skinned zombies in the area, you can let them find out if they want to.  Or 
why their sword +1, +2 vs. Undead won't effect left-handed vampires.

DETAILED PCS AND NPCS
	Every PC and NPC should be as detailed as possible.  The reason for 
this is simple.  It makes the GM's and the player's jobs easier.  (It 
actually makes character creation harder, but gameplay easier.)  Players 
should know everything about their characters and GMs should know everything 
about every character.
	If a character has an advantage, then detail how they got that 
advantage.  Likewise, if they have a disadvantage, then detail it.  Most game 
systems have phobias as a disadvantage.  If a character has a phobia, then 
explain in detail how it came about.  GMs need to remember that a characters 
disadvantage is your advantage and a players advantage is your disadvantage.
	The more a GM knows about the PCs and NPCs, and the better the 
players know their their characters, the more opportunities arise to 
roleplay.  The GM can come up with more ideas for plots, subplots, and 
special encounters.  This in turn gives the players a chance to become more 
involved with the story.
	 This goes beyond just advantages and disadvantages.  It also applies 
to skills ("Where did you learn to sword swallow anyway?"), character 
attributes ("You mean you got that strong from lifting polar bears?!"), 
habits ("Talking to animals, eh?  Like they're gonna talk back."), and 
appearance ("And I suppose everyone in your family is a handsome as you?") If 
a character has it, then define it.

AVOID TECHNICAL TALK WHEN YOU CAN
	The less you have to mention the rules in a horror game the better.  
This is fairly easy to do in systems that have very few rules (such as Call 
of Cthulhu), but can be impossible in ones that are rules intensive (like 
Rolemaster).  Here are some ways you can do it.
	Come up with some sort of hand signals to tell a character they need 
to roll to resist fear, or pass them a note.  You could even make any rolls 
yourself and pass a note telling the player the results.  Or even better yet, 
you can just let the players roleplay their responses.  So long as they are 
true to their characters and the present situation, this is okay.
	The more attention you give the rules, the less attention goes to the 
story.  Try to find a comfortable way to avoid using the technical terms of a 
game but not slow down play.  This can help support the mood your trying 
create.

ROLEPLAYING
	You knew I'd get to it sooner or later.  I put it towards the end so 
that you'd remember it.  Horror just doesn't work without roleplaying.  And 
not just ordinary roleplaying.  You have to do it with style.  Your on center 
stage.  Be the actor.  Put heart and soul into it.  Nothing can ruin a good 
horror story more than poor roleplaying can.
	A good way to invoke roleplaying in players is to award experience 
based solely on roleplaying.  (A good way to invoke roleplaying in the GM is 
to pitch in for pizza :] )  Note that it doesn't have to be an oscar winning 
performance.  It just needs to be done.  Not everyone can play Hamlet well, 
but everyone can try.  But do give out bonus experience for a truly excellent 
performance.
	A lot of people believe that it's the actor who makes Shakespeare.  
But in my opinion, it's Shakespeare who makes the actor.  As a GM, you are 
Shakespeare.  And the more depth you put into your horror games, the better 
the results you get from your players.

FINISHING THOUGHTS
	There are other things you can do to enhance the feeling of your 
horror campaigns, but they have little to do with the actual game.  Dim the 
lights where you play.  This helps create atmosphere.  You can also use 
props, sound effects, and haunting musical scores.
	 A special note shoud be made about props.  Don't use any real 
weapons!  In fact, avoid any prop weapons at all if you can.  Also don't use 
anything that you can't afford to lose.  Not that you'd lose it, but you 
never know.  This includes family heirlooms, fine china, etc.  Props aren't 
that important.
	There are probably a number of things I'm forgetting at the moment.  
If I come across something important, I'll add them in along the way.  Next 
month we'll look at what elements can be used when designing you own horror 
adventure.  For now, I'm outta' here.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CCGs vs RPGs (Harold N. MacAulay <leslie@isn.net>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	CCG (Collectable Card Games) vs. RPG (Role-Playing Games) is there 
any wonder as to were it all comes from.  When I first started playing RPGs I 
never heard of Magic: The Gathering, or anything of the like.  Well now the 
battle of the the games has started.  Even in the little town in the middle 
on Prince Edward Island, Canada in our one comic store it has happened, 
instead of talking about last weeks game, it is about the game being played 
now or about the last tournament. 
	When I first started playing AD&D some six years ago it was the 
greatest thing that I have ever played.  It was like a movie and a video game 
all wrapped into one.  Instead of seeing the hero train to defeat the major 
foe, it was me training him to finish off the evil mage and clam his tower 
for my own.  For six years I played and never looked back until now.  About a 
year ago I strayed from the RPG world to the Card game world.  Both worlds 
are made of paper and dice and now even little metal minatures. 
	When I found a few people to play, only one of them was from my 
former game group that died off because of moving on and moving away, a whole 
new type of role-playing developed, and when some of the rest of my game 
group started to play the RPG world had stopped and that was okay for a 
little while but soon the cards got to be routine, people using the same 
"killer" decks over and over again.  It, well, got boring.  But whenever 
someone got a new card it was great, Reading it for the first time was fun 
and trying to devise a new way to counter the effect of the new card.  In 
many ways it was the same as facing a new creature from the new monster 
manual that the DM just got, but still I found that it lacked something but 
what? 
	After a while I began to relize what it was that was missing from the 
card games, player interaction and character development.  Some people might 
say that building a deck is like creating a new character, is it?  Sure, I 
think that it is very alike but also very diffrent.  A deck doesn't need to 
be equipped with a sword or anything trivial like torchs or food for the next 
adventure.  Gold doesn't have to be spent buying armor.  Does the deck need a 
horse to get around, NO.  In many ways the construction of a deck and a 
character are the same.  Both take time and a lot of consideration.  For 
example, they suit the player and not the other way around.  Both can give 
the creator a sense of acomplishment.  Last but not least they give the 
creator a great deal of pleasure, either the deck winning or the fighter 
destroying the creature that guards the monster. 
	I have no quams about any of the card games, and as a matter of fact 
I play in quite a few of them, Magic, Star Trek, VTES, and I even tried the 
Dragon Dice game.  I find that the game can even interact with each other.  
One time when me and a few of my friends were playing Vampire the Masqurade, 
we use magic to pass some of he time between events.  For a little while 
when Jhyad came out all of the aspects of the game, made it look like a RPG 
of some sorts, Voting, attacking and trying to steal peoples equipment.  But 
alas I found that with just two people it got boring and without the proper 
funds to get good cards, my friends couldn't play. 
	All in all the two systems are almost the same, but they have alot 
of diffrences.  The main one being player interaction and the joy of Role-
playing with your friends.  Sure trounceing them with the super card may be 
fun but it may get boring.  My biggest prblem wiht the two is the fact of 
funds.  AD&D and other game can be used over and over again and not get 
bored with the same thing over and over agian, we as if you get a pack of 
cards and get the same on, well SOL.  I have amassed some thousands of 
dollars in AD&D book and about 500 on cards.  I find that after a while the 
cards do get boring and we stop playing, but for the role-playing game, they 
never stop anymore and we still have a ball doing the same old stuff, it's 
just a different day or plane whatever comes to mind. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Chat (Craig Janssen <daili@gate.net>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Welcome to Net Chat!
 
	There was an error in issue #9 of Scrye.  The WotC email listserv is 
listserv@wizards.com not oracle@wizards.com!  Thank you, Carol Sprague for 
catching the error!  The last few months have been quite an experience!  
Things are starting to get busy with MSN.  You will see my name more when you 
get replies from Scrye.  I am helping out with email as the other people at 
Scrye are very busy.  I expect the next months to be very exciting.  Well, it 
will be busy at least! 

MTG front:
	Chronicles are available again. Homelands will be here but the time 
you read this. I am hearing rumors that Homelands will be printed on the 
scale of Fallen Empires. I know there are no problems getting Homelands from 
distributors.  Another unusual event has occurred with Homelands.  WotC 
released the rarity list for the set early. Scrye rushed to get a list 
together for issue #10. A new restricted/ban list has been released.  The 
following cards Channel, Chaos Orb, and Falling Star are now banned in 
tournament use.  Summon legends are now unrestricted, and the Zuran Orb is 
restricted. Watch the Wizards WWW site, for updates and information!  There 
has been some very interesting discussions about all the rules 
clarifications and updates. 
	Most people see the need for the updates. Others say "Enough is 
Enough"!  There is now a Top 10 MTG list.  You can now vote for your 
favorite card. The list is compiled by Tom Gioconda (see Net Resources for 
the address and WWW information).
 
Other CCG Front:
	Heresy should be out by the time you read this!  The company Last 
Unicorn Games is offering free goodies.  You can call them for details (see 
Net Resources).  A well detailed guide to V:TES has been released on the net.  
If you can't find it, email me for a copy.  Legends of the Five Rings is 
scheduled for release in early October!  There will be approximately 300 
cards in the set, with a total print run of 12 million cards.  Keep your eyes 
open for the promo sheets!  For you World War 2 fans, check out the The Last 
Crusade CCG.   Last Crusade will cover the struggle between the Allies and 
Germany between the years of 1944 and 1945. 
	Middle Earth: The Wizards is due out some time in December and will 
be released by I.C.E. not WotC.  The set will be over 400 cards. Rumors say 
the art is great!  OverPower is here!  Fleer is pulling out all the stops 
with this CCG.  Be on the look out for OverPower Legion.  The Legion will be 
the official club for OverPower.  Prices to join were still being determined.  
Members will have access to free goodies and information not available to 
other people!  Send email to address or call the 800 number listed in Net 
Resources for details.
	On the Edge is still doing well.  Atlas had the "On the Edge Promo 
days" in early October.  Hopefully, everyone got a chance to see OTE for 
themselves.  The OTE ftp site (see Net Resources for address) has been 
updated with new expansion information and a Quick Start sheet with deck 
building and rules information.  White Wolf Games has started a club for 
Rage.  It will be called Garou Nation and it's free for a limited time.  You 
can even join by email!  The club will offer free items and a 20% discount on 
orders from White Wolf.  Just send the following information to Justin 
Achilli by email (Achilli@aol.com) include your name, address, phone number, 
tribe of interest, e-mail address, age, and phone number.  Or you can call 
the phone number listed for Rage in Net Resources.  Check out the Rage room 
in the People Connection on Thursdays 6 PM to 7 PM, Todd Mayville will be 
online to talk about Rage.
	Tempest of the Gods is shipping in the first week of October.  It 
should also available by the time you read this.  Dragon Dice by TSR is a 
new twist on the collectible game market.  As the name implies, dice 
instead of cards are used.  Dragon Dice is receiving a lot of attention on 
the news group.  The latest issue of Polyhedron magazine (RPGA) has a rules 
and reference article about Dragon Dice.  Throwing Stones published by 
Gamesmiths, is another dice based game.  The review posted on misc group was 
very detailed.  Throwing Stones is primarily a role playing game, unlike 
Dragon Dice that is geared toward miniature games. David Long, the president 
of Ultimate Games has offered a buy back guarantee for the new expansion set 
ANCIENT FIGHTING ARTS OF CHINA (email address below).  WildStorm Productions 
is looking for stores to promote the WildStorms CCG.  Email JNEE01@aol.com 
(Jeff Mariotte, Director of Marketing) or send a fax to (619) 551-9544 for 
more information.
 
Email Lists:
	To provide complete coverage of the CCG industry on Internet, I will 
start looking at email lists that exist for the various games. Email lists 
are more specialized and active than news groups.  This month, I will be 
talking about the ST-CCG email lists.  Big news on 
stccg-discussion@lists.decipher.com is about Alternate Universe.  Warren 
Holland, the president of Decipher has announced the release for Alternate 
Universe. Alternate Universe will be release on December 18.  Warren Holland 
also talked about the reasons for the delays.  Reactions by readers of the 
email list was mixed. It is clear that most people are very disappointed 
about the delay of Alternate Universe. The email list 
stccg-marketplace@lists.decipher.com is a good place for buying and trading 
cards.  A rumor just appeared on the discussion group, that says that 
Paramount will be using SkyBox to publish other CCGs dealing with DS9, Star 
Trek movies, and Voyager.  More details as they are released!  

IRC:
	Want to meet some of the national tournament players from the USA?  
Some of the best tournament players can be found on IRC.  Others can be 
found, if you look hard enough.  Some of the people include Adam Maysonet 
(MTG SE Regional Champion) and Brian Weissman.  What do people talk about? 
The #mtg channel is not just for MTG.  People will talk about almost any of 
the CCGs presently out on the market.  There has been a lot of talk about 
where CCGs are heading.  Be sure to get a copy of Jesse Richman's (Dahlimer) 
FAQ "How to play MTG on IRC".  Yes, people do play MTG on IRC quite a lot!

MSN:
	MSN activities are still in the works.  Due to changes in the 
publishing schedule of Scrye, things are moving some what slower than we 
first thought.  New files will be uploaded to MSN by the time you see this.  
Scrye University will be up and running in late December as of now.  You can 
find me online on MSN in the evenings.  Feel free to send me email or drop by 
the Scrye chat room.

Net Resources:
	Here are some updated email lists and WWW sites.  If you know of any 
sites or email addresses I do not have, please let me know. James Smith 
maintains a promo card list.  It is posted to 
rec.games.trading-cards.announce monthly.  His email address is 
engjs@cc.newcastle.edu.au where James is looking for corrections and 
additions to list.
 
BattleLords              http://www.io.com/~optimus (ODS web site)
			 optimus@io.com, OptimusDS@aol.com
Crow                     http://www.best.com/trooper.shtml
Dragon Dice              salvius@panix.com   (Vinny Salzillo)
Galactic Empires         http://io.com/user/kira/empires/
Guardians                FPGQNA@aol.com (Net Rep is changing)
Hyborian Gates           1-800-373-GATE
Last Unicorn Games       1-800-275-4323
On The Edge              ftp.io.com/pub/Atlas
OverPower                AHRZ07A@prodigy.com (Steve Domzalski)
			 http://www.swarthmore.edu/cc/staff/yue/OverPower
			 1-800-OPrules
Rage                     ragecom@aol.com
			 http://www.turnpike.net/~Mackman/ragefile.htm 
			 404-292-WOLF
Ultimate Combat          davelong@aol.com
Top 10 MTG List          Email: tgioconda@ids2.idsonline.com
			 WWW: http://www.tjhsst.edu/~tgiocond/
CCG & RPG site           http://mxn117.rh.psu.edu/~spud/gamer.htm

Card Combos:
 
From Vincent J. Murphy:

    TNT: Order of Light with Wand of Lightning
	 Cloud Giant and Fly

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Daili's Collectibles - Informational (Craig Janssen <daili@gate.net>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Daili's Collectibles was formed in Feb 1995, in Gainesville Florida. 
The purpose of Daili's Collectibles was to provide CCG and RPG products at 
low prices. Daili's Collectibles is currently located in Melbourne, Florida. 
Daili's Collectiibles is owned and operated by Craig Janssen.
	Daili's Collectibles sells all the current brands of CCGs and RPGs. 
	Daili's Collectibles is currently offering a 30% standard discount to 
IRPS members for RPG products.  The discount can be increased with large 
orders.  Daili's Collectibles offers free shipping for orders over 150$ on 
RPG products.  Shipping is generally included in the price of CCG products 
(in the USA).  CCG product are general discounted more than 30% I will be 
happy to work with any member interested in products.
	Daili's Collectibles can be reach by email at daili@gate.net A WWW 
page is in the works in the future.  Right now, there is no WWW pages due to 
the costs of my interenet access provider. 
	Ordering is simple.  Send email to daili@gate.net.  Detail what you 
want.  If the items are not in stock, I will check my distributor to see if 
its avaiable.  Right now, Daili's Collectibles is accepting Money Orders and 
Checks.  Checks will delay shipment of product till the check clears the bank 
account.  This is gerenally 3 to 5 business days. Don't want to send email?  
You can call Daili's Collectibles as well. 
	Shipping is by UPS in the USA. Outside of the US, shipping will be by 
US mail. I am looking into expanding this...
	Daili's Collectibles does not currently take credit cards. Due to 
costs, included we will not be taking credit cards for the short term.  
Credit cards would add at least 4% to every order. *Ouch*
	References are aaiable upon request. I have been around internet for 
10 years now and have dealt with quite a few people.
	This information sheet will be expanded upon in the future as events 
warrant.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Roles & Rolls (Eduard W. Lohmann <lohmann@fwi.uva.nl>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  It all happened right there.  The same inn I always went to.  Not the kind 
  of place many adventures start, but a quiet local place.  Where only the 
  regulars come.  Rain poured down across the windows. Lightning flashed 
  infrequently, but just often enough not to keep me from relaxing. As the 
  door opened the thunder crashed into my ears. 

  A man came in. Not to tall, an elegant and soundless stride and a pale 
  attractive face. He must have been in his thirties.  He scanned the room 
  and I could feel his gaze settle upon me like a curse. He walked over to 
  me and I fully expected him to...  I don't know what. But all he did was 
  hand me a scroll.  On the outside only four letters glared at me 
  menacingly IRPS.  When I looked up he was walking towards the door and 
  as he left I noticed he didn't leave a drop of water.

Hello all, 
	I though I'd start of with a little atmosphere since it is so 
important to role-playing. And role-playing is what I enjoy most.  I am a 25 
year old student of theoretical computer science from Amsterdam and my name 
is Eduard Lohmann.  I am planning to write a column for the IRPS answering 
questions about role-playing and Game-system design. 
	I have been involved in Fantasy Role Playing for about ten years.  I 
have played the following commercial systems D&D, AD&D-1, AD&D-2, GURPS, 
MERP, Elfquest, Space 1889, ShadowRun and Dangerous Journeys.  I have also 
played and/or studied other game-systems including Dark Dungeon, FUDGE and 
many others some of which I designed myself. And last but not least, I have 
played and mastered, without using a game system.  I am most interested in 
Swords & Sorcery, dark fantasy and Gothic horror.

  I sit and wait until the beating of my hart feels normal and I open my 
  newly received document.

     So you plan to answer question do you. 
     Do you think you know all _Mortal_. 
     Your life is but a flicker of light 
     and darkness is all around you. 
     You know so little.


  What? How? Who is this person? What does he know about me?  I do not 
  know all but I know enough to be of use to some, or so I think... I 
  need another drink. Innkeeper!

	I will try to answer any question as fairly as I can, but this column 
is meant for questions about role-playing and game-system design. As I think 
that (sadly) these have much to do with each other. I am most interested in 
questions that are important regardless of what game-system one uses. 
	Some practical information. If you want to ask a question send it to 
lohmann@fwi.uva.nl and start the subject with [R&R] or [IRPS] and give me 
some time to find the answer, before the next newsletter is posted. Also 
include what sources you have already tried to find an answer, like books, 
usenet-groups and such. 
	I hope this has made things clear enough to make Roles & Rolls a 
asset to the IRPS and the world of roleplaying.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Long Eons - Q&A's (Barbara Johnson-Haddad <bhaddad@lunacity.com>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Greetings.  From the darkness a gamer wanders forth, dragging a 
suitcase full of rule-books, pockets bulging with dice and decks of magic 
cards.  She (yes, _she_) smiles and says, "Thought I'd introduce myself.  
I've gamed for 23 years --as of this Easter-- and figured there might be some 
questions that I can help answer.  While I haven't played every single role-
playing game in existance the past several decades, I have played a large 
share of them.  I've also helped explain to non-gamers why RPGs are not 
evil/satanic/etc and the positive influences that gaming has.
	I have also helped organize and run a variety of gaming/science 
fiction/fantasy conventions, and can offer advice on this.  Mythology, 
science fiction, fantasy, horror are all genres I have read extensively, so 
if you have a reasonable question/want some advice or suggestions, by all 
means ask me.
	Feel free to send your questions to me directly at: 
bhaddad@lunacity.com for answers.
	And with a grin at the readers beyond the darkened screen, the 
gamer bows and drags her gaming material off-stage.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
James's Brain Dump (James Ducan <jduncan@hawk.igs.net>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	As this is my first column here at IRPS (for that matter, anywhere 
else),  and probably the first time anybody out there has heard of me, I'll 
let you know a little about myself;  I am several things: a Unix SysAdmin in 
two locations, the owner of Palanoon Computing Technologies, which is a 
Networking Database development company; and a part owner of TCGames, which 
is an RPG company that myself and two friends started just over three months 
ago.
	I have been playing various games now for nine years,  since the 
start of 1988.  I started with Steve Jackson & Ian Livingstone's choose your 
own adventure book 'Forest of Doom', and since then I've been hooked on all 
types of Fantasy & SciFi games.
	I remember the first time I opened the red Dungeons and Dragons 
boxed set - I still use the dice that came with it - the books that seemed so 
complicated then, appear so tiny now. 
	I also remember the first 'Dragon' Magazine I read, and the first 
time I played an *Gnomish* Magic User, in the seemingly unlimited rules of 
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons.
				* * *
	My gaming has altered in many ways over the last nine years: Dungeons 
& Dragons, to Shadowrun to RIFTS, and finally to my own game: True Cyberpunk;  
All my experiences are positive and warm.
	I've had my share of bad DM's, and even bad days when I couldn't come 
up with an adventure hook if Takhissis herself told me to; I think it's 
important that I enjoyed all these times as well - sure, maybe the people I 
was playing with didn't appreciate it to begin with, but after ten minutes of 
complaining, whining, and/or physical violence (I am joking by the way), most 
of the time we all sat down after ten minutes, looking through the various 
boxed sets that lay scattered throughout the room, discussing rules, 
discussing life, and having a good time.
	This brings me to my point (Yes, I do have one):  
	Gaming is a social animal.  
	Gamers stick together and tend to help each other out.  We attend 
conventions together, because we are bound by a common interest, even if we 
don't look the same, sound the same, or even play the same game.
	Two gamers, with completly  different backgrounds can sit down and - 
provided they speak the same language - discuss aspects of most roleplaying 
games in a civillized, intelligent manner.
	It is something that does not happen in the same scale as acting, or 
writing, or anything else (with the exception perhaps, of comic books and 
Collectors Card Games).
	Perhaps this is why roleplaying is still seen as a 'geeks' game (you 
have to use your intelligence).
	Perhaps this is why there hasn't been a mass-market RPG yet (I've 
noticed this discussion on USENET once again).
	If this is the case, I'm still happy and content to be in this 
geekish minority.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Magic Item Shop (Dave Mavretic (davem1@island.microserve.com)>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rock of Jaghmuth

Frequency:      Unique
Exp.:           13000
Value:          10000 GP

	The Rock of Jaghmuth is what appears to be a common river stone, 
which is just large enough to fit into the palm of the hand, when the fist 
is clenched.  If a detect magic is cast upon this stone, it will give off a 
faint reading of alternation magic.
	Jaghmuth Yettison was a powerful wizard who, late in the year of 
1158, decided that normal methods of fighting in his pits, was growing 
boring.  So using his vast knowledge of the arcane arts, he created a way for 
a fighter to beat an opponent, even if the odds were heavily favored against 
him.
	Just before a pit fight would take place, Jaghmuth would slip into 
the arena and drop the rock somewhere on the sands, close to the enterance 
where his fighter would appear.  Then, while the battle was going on, his 
fighter would pick up the rock, and use it in battle.
	This was not frowned on, because the only weapons allowed in these 
fights, were hands, feet, other body parts, sand, and/or, whatever the 
fighters could find on the floor of the arena.  There would always be other 
stones around.  Being a river stone, it was easier to distinguish, because of 
it's rounded edges.
	Jaghmuth used several spells and methods to create this weapon.  
Since he was considered a wilder, it was not above him to use Necromancy in 
creating his artifact.  He captured a Fire Giant, and used his vast knowledge 
to drain all the strength, (and subsequently the life) of the Fire Giant and 
transfer it to the stone.  He even went deep into the jungles of Chult, and 
captured two Atomie Sprites, and drained their speed and dexterity to add 
that to the stone.
	Only when weilded, the Rock will grant the weilder the strength of a 
fire giant, and the dexterity of an atomie sprite, in the hand/arm holding 
the Rock.  It is not possible to hold any other weapon with the same hand 
that the Rock is in.
	In Game terms, this gives the weilder a +4 to hit, and +10 to damage, 
and a defense adjustment of -5.
	Jaghmuth fared well, and won many of the wagers for quite a while in 
these arena's.  However, his luck was destined to change.  The Fire Giant 
who's essense he had utilized for his Rock, had a mate, and it was very 
unhappy when it finally found out what happened. 
	It tracked Jaghmuth down, and there was a terrible battle between the 
two.  Many blows and spells were traded back and forth, and to Jaghmuth, it
appeared that the Fire Giant was hardly hurt by even his most offensive of
attacks. He on the other hand, was serioulsy hurt.
	In his haste to leave, he dropped the Rock, as he initiated his 
teleport to a safer place.  After he disappeared, the Fire Giant picked up 
the Rock, and cursed the Rock, for any weilder who used it to suffer the same 
fate as it's mate.  Then, with it's dying breaths, made the curse permanent.
	Jaghmuth, arriving where he had decided to teleport, didn't quite 
realize the extent of his injuries, and passed out immediately.  He bled to 
death, without ever waking up.
	The Rock traded many hands over the years. It's last known location 
was somewhere in Zenthil Keep. (DM's choice)

DM's Notes:
	Use of this item grants the weilder a +4 to hit, and +10 to damage, 
and an initiative modifier of -5.  Upon every successful hit using this 
weapon, the weilder sufferes a one point subtraction of either his dexterity 
or strength (DM choice) and has a 50% chance of loosing one point of ANY
stat, upon using the stone more than once. Every successful hit will mean
the weilder looses one stat point somewhere, PERMANENTLY.
	Treat any natural 20 roll, as a critical hit, for maximum damage, 
tripled.  The victim must roll a successful save vs. death, or have whatever 
part of him/her hit, be disabled for 1d10 rounds. ANY successful hit to the 
head (called shot or hit table) when a critical hit is rolled, the victim is
knocked unconcious (unless killed).

Play Notes:
	The Rock is something that breaks the monotony of the game, during 
combat.  It provided some interesting and entertaining role playing, until 
the party that was using it, sold it to get away from the curse.
	If you have an item(s), that you would like to see in this column, 
please send it/them to  dmav@island.microserve.com  and I'll playtest it, to 
test it out, then send it out in the newsletter, (depending on the number of
entries), as soon as possible. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
On the Shoulders of Giants <Bruce Sheffer (bsheffer@arthritis.org)>
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Supernatural Investigation by the Numbers

Review all you know about the situation.  Just like in journalism you have to 
know:  Who, What, Where, How, When, and Why.  

1) Who - Who is involved.  Learn everything you can about the people in this 
situation you can.  Check police and military records, financial records (tax 
returns, phone logs, utility company usage), property ownership, places of 
business, credit statements, bank records, recent purchases and patterns of 
buying.  If you work for a powerful agency most of this can be done with a 
simple computer query, phone call, or flash of credentials.  If not, you will 
need to do some legwork or computer hacking.  

2a) What - What happened?  What really happened?.  Not conjecture, not what 
everyone thinks happened.  You need physical evidence, eyewitness testimony 
(only the parts that start with "I saw"), or photographic records.  Few 
people have any experience with a supernatural phenomenon so you cannot trust 
their conclusions.  Differences between photographic records and testimony 
can be just the result of amateurism or may indicate that the observers and 
participants were mind affected or the manifestation cannot be recorded 
electronically or on film.  

2b) What - What is it? If you have a database of supernatural creatures or 
manifestations you can start to identify what is the nature of the beast.  If 
you can learn what you face then you can plan specific attacks and defenses 
against it, so you don't follow the victim's footsteps.  Remember that many 
creatures can have some of the same abilities (both a werewolf and vampire 
are immune to normal weaponry, both can shapechange).
	Until all the evidence is compiled you cannot act with any reasonable 
confidence.  Act in haste and you may join the ranks of your opponent rather
than defeating he, she, or it.

3) Where - Where did this take place.  Some creatures only appear in certain 
climates or cultures.  Others cannot abide certain locations (most vampires 
cannot cross holy ground.  If the supernatural incident occurs there, you 
know what it isn't).  It may also give some illumination to where a creature 
lairs.  Look for sewers, alleyways, parking lots, how high the rooftops - 
Anything that would allow a creature to enter and exit without hindrance. 
	Most monsters are smart.  They have to be or they would not survive.  
It is usually bad luck or a change in their situation that reveals them so 
that they become the object of your investigation.  This assumes that they 
aren't newly created.  If so the real object of your investigation becomes 
the person or thing that created them.

4) How - At the beginning, you are looking for means and methods.  How was 
the person attacked?  What kind of injuries did it leave.  How did it gain 
entrance.  How did it escape pursuit (if any).  

5) When -  When did the incident occur?  Many creatures shun daylight.  If 
there were multiple incidents you may begin to see a pattern of behavior.  If 
an attack occurs every 48 hours you know your period of safety.  You know 
when you need to be prepared for another attack.  You know when to get some 
sleep so you will be as alert as possible.  Creatures of darkness may be 
weaker than they appear, using the night to aid their approach and departure.
     Illusions are more believable at night since our eyes are poorly 
equipped to discern detail in low light and our other sense are not very 
acute.  So you need to stock up on light intensifier goggles (maybe infrared 
as well).

6)  Why - Why did this happen?  As mentioned above, most supernatural 
creatures are good at covering their tracks, that is why they have survived.  
Unless it was just bad luck, something has changed to create the incident.
	Check for sale or demolition of buildings, especially ones that have 
appeared dormant for a long time.  Sudden unseasonal storms that flood the 
storm drains can flush out many undesirable elements.  Increases in crime, 
natural disasters, new construction, or recent exhibitions of art, ancient 
artifacts, or estate sales can unleash a slew of horrors.  Check police 
reports for thefts of such items as well.
	Only after you have exhausted all your sources of information should 
you make a move against this creature.  In most cases your biggest asset is 
that the supernatural is counting on no one really believing that it exists.  
That can lull it into a false sense of confidence and allow important 
information to slip out.  A threatened creature is far more dangerous and may 
go to ground disappearing for long periods and thwarting your investigation.
	You don't know who your enemies are.  Many times your allies can be 
turned against you by mind control, bribery, extortion, or simple slips of 
information.  Much as you may wish to give reassurance, you must keep most 
information to yourself.  If no one knows your real reason for being there,
so much the better.
	Usually the most important answers will only be revealed at the end 
of the investigation.  However, they are the most important.  They make the 
difference between killing (or destroying) and capturing the supernatural 
creature.  If the creature was acting out of simple hunger.  If it was 
wronged and was seeking simple justice.  If it can be controlled and turned 
to good, then killing it is a terrible waste and just acerbates the tragedy 
of the situation.  However, if the incident occurs due to greed, hatred, or 
any of the other deadly sins, then you have no choice.  Your first priority 
is the safety and well being of those who employ you.  

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Final Note (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Well as always, I encourage all the members out there who read the
IRPS newsletter to write IRPS authors and give them feedback regarding their
monthly columns.  Also, if you're interested in writing a monthly column,
e-mail me for further information.
