The RPG Times
Dec. 1, 1996.
Vol. 1 Issue #12

An on-line version of this magazine can be viewed at:
http://www.commerce.adelaide.edu.au/calvert/irps/index.html

Table of Contents:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IRPS President's Note    Michael Popovich (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu)
Editor's Note            Karen Mizeri  (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Columns:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rambling Thoughts        Kosala Ubayasekara (d96-kub@nada.kth.se)
The Top Ten              John "BJ" Tomkins  (gr8dm@acronet.net)
MaBarry's Amusings       Meera Barry (mabarry@abwam.com)
TSR: AD&D Player's       Mark Eismendi (umeismen@ccumanitoba.ca)
Option: Skills and
Powers Review   
DM's Advice              Earl Harrison (harrison@comsys.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role Playing Aides
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Knight Magus             Bull Truglio (LliumDCLN@aol.com)
Demon Stew               Earl Harrison (harrison@comsys.net)


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fiction:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Assassins            Tim Elford (shade@tusc.com.au) AND
                         Goran Zidar (goran@elf.aust.com)
Fireside Chat            John "BJ" Tomkins  (gr8dm@acronet.net)
In the World Where the   Jesus Negrete (74751.2302@compuserve.com)
Lance Is Mightier than
the Dragon
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Classified Ads:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Calling all Authors!
Subject: Volunteers Wanted for Editing
Subject: Knight March '97
Subject: Anaconism Jr.
Subject: New Champions Game
Subject: New Amber PBEM
Subject: The Ararc Society

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The RPG Times Staff List
Guidelines for Submissions
Legal Disclaimer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
President's Note
Michael Popovich (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hey Everyone,

	IRPS is still alive and kicking.  
	If you haven't already seen our improved newsletters (in HTML/E-Zine
format) please stop by the IRPS page (http://www.borg.com/~gdb319/daur/irps) in
the previous newsletter section or you may view the current issue at
(http://www.commerce.adelaide.edu.au/calvert/irps/index.html)  :)  It blew my
mind out when I first saw it, and I'd like to thank everyone in the newsletter
department for their job well done.  Also, IRPS is thinking about a few
programs, and if there's any programmers out in IRPS who would like to help
develop a MUD or a game, written in Java, please feel free to email me at
(mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Editor's Note
Karen Mizeri (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greetings all!

I would like to first of all thank everyone for all their help on the second
issue of The RPG Times.  Anyone who wishes to get involved can email me or the
head of the department they wish to be involved with.  As always we are
holding regular meetings on Mondays on the nemesis.acronet.net server, on IRPS.
Anyone who wishes can drop in, these are at 9:30 PM EST.

Starting next month we will be having a column for letters to the editor, and
we would welcome anyone to write who wishes to express an opinion.

Also a reminder that we are always looking for new writers, the guidelines are
available from a link on the EZine, or you can email me for a copy.  We are
also taking submissions of original artwork.  These can be mailed to the head
of the graphics department.

Particularly we would be interested in those wanting to write about other games
which are not TSR or derivatives.  Please mail me for more information.


Cheers!

Karen Mizeri

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Columns:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rambling Thoughts
Kosala Ubayasekara  (d96-kub@nada.kth.se)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role-playing...? Huh...?

        So you've heard of this role-playing thing...but don't have a clue what
it is.   You've had someone take great pains trying to explain it to you...but
at the end of it all you're no wiser than when you started out.  That is
because role-playing is a very difficult thing to explain, and is best understood
by doing.  Nonetheless, I am going to try and explain it to you.  Bear in mind
that I have attempted this countless times before verbally, with no great degree
of success.  Perhaps the printed page will be clearer.  Also keep in mind that
this explanation is general, and rules and game systems vary from game to game.
The following is meant to be a very general approach, which I hope agrees with
many of the role-playing game systems out there.

        Firstly, what does a role-playing game look like?  You can't actually see it.
There is no game board and rarely any game pieces.  The game takes place in your
imagination.  Que?  Here's how.  Most role-playing games consist of several
players and one game master (abbreviated as GM or equivalent).  The GM is the
one who prepares the game.  That means he or she must plan a general scenario
in which to involve the other players' characters.  Each player has one or
several characters (usually just one) and pretends to be that character for the
duration of the game.  Here is an example to show you how that works.

        In this scenario PLAYER 1 is a warrior and PLAYER 2 is a wizard.  The GM
has just started the adventure and he is constructing a scenario where the two
imaginary characters (warrior and wizard) can meet.  He describes to the two the
interior of an inn, and how the two wound up sitting next to each other at a
table.  The players then have the opportunity to introduce themselves and may
even (as is intended in this case) team up to go adventuring together.  When
such an occasion arrives (where one character meets another) the two players
'role-play' the meeting.  Essentially that means they act it out as if it were
they who are at the inn and not their imaginary characters.  When I say act it
out I mean verbally, not that the players get up and perform a minor drama
(unless they want to of course).

	It is easily obvious that analogies can be drawn between role-playing
and theater.  The GM like the director sets up a scene and the players like the
actors bring that scene to life.  The director then puts many such scenes
together to make a play and the GM puts many such scenarios together to create
an adventure.  However there is one vital difference.  In theater the director
has a major influence over what the actors do in their scenarios.  In role-
playing the player's have full control over their characters' actions (except in
very special circumstances) and the GM has control over the game world and the
characters that the players do not control, e.g. the other beings and creatures
populating the world.

	So if your character wanders into a forest clearing, it is the GM's
obligation to inform you of what your character would see, hear, smell, etc.,
as if you were actually there.  If then a wolf suddenly runs into that same
clearing and upon seeing you decides to attack, which is a choice the GM makes
for the wolf based on what he knows about the beast's behavior and of the
situation at hand, it is the GM who controls the wolf and its 'thoughts' and
actions, while you control your character's thoughts and actions.  If you have
any bright ideas and wish to incorporate them into your actions, you inform the
GM and he or she will evaluate your idea and describe the happening of events
accordingly.

	You may be wondering, as most non-role players I know do, why the dice?
Simple.  In most role-playing games the dice are used to evaluate a probability.
In real life probability is 'evaluated' automatically.  When you punch someone,
the probability of you actually hitting the person depends on your speed and how
good you are at punching, and on his speed and how good he is at dodging.  This
probability is 'evaluated' automatically, i.e.: if you miss and receive a
stunning blow in return you know you've failed.  In a game where there is no
actual physical level, the results of such actions as combat must be evaluated
some other way.  The GM, although supposed to be impartial, cannot always be
asked to evaluate these outcomes fairly by just using his common sense and
personal judgment.  That would definitely cause havoc among the players and it
would be difficult to maintain consistency.  So an arbitrary system is called
for, and hence the dice.  Bear in mind that not all game systems use dice these
days, but check individual games for details.

	In conclusion I would just like to address some silly myths about role-
playing games.  They are NOT dangerous and certainly NOT lethal.  For those of
you out there who have been led to believe they are satanic, let me just
emphasize that we do NOT, I repeat, we do NOT cast spells for real!!!!!  All the
action takes place in the imagination of the players.  It is necessary to
completely get into character while you play to enjoy the experience (just
like in theater), but it is just as necessary to get out of character after you
play.  This is the real world we live in and even though the fantasy worlds have
a tendency to be considerably cooler, it is necessary that a clear distinction
be made between the two.  As long as you do that there is no harm in role-
playing.  It is a hobby like any other.  Fortunately most people are endowed
with enough intelligence to make this distinction (I have yet to meet anyone
that isn't).

        There are in fact many good things about role-playing.  One clear fact
you will start to notice quite early is that your vocabulary increases
exponentially.  That is because you come in contact with a section of the
English (or any other) language that you may otherwise have missed.  Your
imagination and reasoning skills will develop automatically.  Role-playing is
almost all based on your imagination so if you have none then this is not the
type of game for you.  Your organizational and planning skills will grow
(particularly if you are the GM) and you even get better, to some degree, at
mentally reacting quickly and sensibly to unforeseen circumstances and events.
And all this while you are having fun!

	So for all those who are concerned about the safety of role-playing, I
hope they can now be less perturbed.  As for those who relentlessly criticize
it, I hope this has made these people stop and think for a moment and re-
evaluate their opinions.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Top Ten List
John "BJ" Tomkins (gr8dm@acronet.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Top Ten Things to do with Your Old Suit of Armor

10. Make a deck of chain mail playing cards.
9.  Plate mail makes great Tupperware(tm).
8.  Head down south and sell sections of chain  
    links that hook from your belt to your wallet.
7.  Dragon Binkies!
6.  Sell what's left for bondage-wear and see your
    money double!
5.  Recycle
4.  Build a Hyundai(tm).
3.  That old helm makes a wonderful pot for 
    potted plant.
2.  The world needs more "I like Ike" buttons.

And the number one thing to do with your old suit of  armor is...

1.  Hang it on the wall and call it art!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MaBarry's Amusings
Meera Barry (mabarry@abwam.com)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Dragon People

    Are you a dog person or a cat person?  Depending on how you answer,
I am supposed to be able to draw a number of conclusions about you and
your lifestyle: including what political bearings you might have, what
state of (dis)order your house is in, and if you know what to do at a
Saturday evening tea.
    On the other hand, I never liked breaking things up into such
obvious polarities.  "Dog or cat" leaves out the options of such
preferences as penguin people, ferret people, and even the occasional
hippopotamus person.
    Fantasy roleplaying, however, has even worse quirks.  Take the
chimaera; are you a goat person?  A reptile person?  Do you kind of mash
together all the options to come out with the right kind of label?
    Take your average wizard with treasure.  He (or she) has to have
something to guard it for those long weekends when he or she says,
"Forget it!  I'm not the one locked up in this tower...I'm teleporting
to Bermuda, and I'm not coming back until I get a tan!"
    You can draw some conclusions, now, on the type of wizard who takes
what pet.  Let's look at dragon people, for example.
    Dragons are kind of cute when they're born, if you like that sort of
reptilian grace.  Anne McCaffery has done a lot in promoting the
usefulness and intelligent qualities of dragons.  On the other hand, in
most treasure-guarding scenarios, the dragon is the enemy; he, she, or
it (depending on your style of dragon) has to be powerful, able to
consider the options and work against sneaky adventuring types (who
almost always have far too much luck) and be house- (or dungeon-)
broken.
    It takes a real egoist to raise dragons, with an asbestos will, and
the proper pummelling-into-subdual scores.  It takes being able to wake
up in the morning, smell the distant fires, and not cry over spilled
village(r)s.  It takes a special kind of man (woman, or mindflayer) to
be able to clean the dragonlitter box.
    Your average floating eye person, well, he's a real charmer.  He
usually has some sort of hypnotic gaze himself, which is good when he
and his pets try to meet eye-to-eye.  He's an exhibitionist; doesn't
like doing things without an audience, but he doesn't want to break that
fourth wall, which is why he needs such a low-upkeep type of guardian.
    It is said that everyone has skeletons in their closet, but what if
your kind are the type who walk around and bash intruders with a rusty
sword?  Skeleton people are generally thin themselves, if not already
dead.  Skeletons generally don't have much to say (no vocal chords) so
their masters generally aren't used to hearing any kind of backtalk.  No
bones about it, the wizard who uses skeletons to guard his or her
treasure probably harvested them from the last foolish thieving party
who crossed his or her threshold.
    Owl-bear people tend to be big, and pretty friendly, with deep,
heavy chuckles and big, furry hugs.  Their pets are thus reinforced in
their behavior to offer the same treatment to strangers.  On the other
paw, they don't quite know their own strength.  Owl-bear people need the
positive reinforcement, often sleep with teddy owl-bears, and often wear
girdles of giant strength as fashion accessories.
    You have to think about those people who coat the room in fungi or
oozes of various colors.  Do you REALLY want to know what these guys
consider 'treasure'?
    It is rare to meet the wizard with the magically animated mop.
Beware these housecleaning fiends; they tend to mop up in any fights,
sweep damsels into their arms, and squeegie...um...squeegie...nevermind.
Most animated guardians are big, but cheap; the wizards behind them are
usually skinflints (er, so to speak) and buy only the triggering spells
that are on sale.  No maintenance, no fuss, and they're only out a few
thousand gold pieces per IF some pesky adventurer manages to defeat it.
Golem people are much the same way.
    You don't meet many roc people in this business.  Off recording
albums and feeding elephants to their kids, many of them are on a roll.
When a roc is actually guarding something (djinni, for example) you can
be sure they consider the place a dive.  On the other hand, they can be
used to protect a tiny (to them!) nest egg.
    And finally, the "type five demon" people.  The less said about
them, the better.  Don't try asking these people to donate money for the
orphanages; they've got pets to feed.

    Next month:
    Adventurer Pick-Up Lines, or "No, I think the chainmail bikini
really suits you best."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TSR: AD&D Player's Option: Skills and Powers Review
Mark Eismendi (umeismen@cc.umanitoba.ca)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

	In 1995, TSR released their redone versions of the Dungeon Master's
Guide and Player's Handbook.  These were reprints with new art and a
new look, but the same 2nd edition material.  A few things were cleared
up and rewritten, but TSR strongly stated that these were NOT a 3rd edition.
In fact, I believe those were the first words the author spewed onto
paper.  They also re-released the 'Tome of Magic' and 'DM's Screen', which
were virtually unchanged material-wise.  However, for those of you who
haven't been to your local gaming store in quite awhile, there was some
NEW material released which I think is a great addition to the world's
most popular RPG.  
        A new 'Player's Option: Skills & Powers' hardcover was released about the
the same time as the others, as was a 'Player's Option: Combat Tactics Guide'.
To those out there who are now staring skeptically at their screens,
take my word as a DM and player, it's worth every cent of the thirty
some odd dollars Canadian it cost me (GST& PST included).  
	I suppose the best place to start would page one.  The book begins with
the usual methods to rolling up characters.  Personally I like the chart
included, which randomly produces the number of points the characters
have for all their ability scores - and a maximum they can allocate to
any one ability score.  It keeps characters from becoming super-powers 
while still allowing players to tailor their characters to their liking.
        Next, the players will have to calculate their ability statistics
according to their ability scores.  The PO: SP has developed a much more realistic
look at ability scores, and the stats relevant to them.  Each ability
score is divided into two sub-abilities:

	   Strength -> Muscle & Stamina
	   Dexterity-> Aim & Balance
           Constitution-> Fitness & Health
           Intelligence-> Knowledge & Reason
           Wisdom-> Intuition & Willpower
           Charisma-> Leadership & Appearance

        Essentially, the ability score is an average of the two sub-abilities.
Think of the ability score as a scale, and the sub-abilities resting one
on each balance.  If one goes up the other goes down, and vice versa.  They can
also balance equally.  The book maintains there should be no more of a
difference than four points between the sub-abilities when the character is
created, although it can be increased further later on.  The ability
statistics are then gathered from the relevant sub-ability scores
rather than the overall ability score.  For example, a character's
defensive adjustment (normally taken from the dexterity score), would now
be determined by the balance score.  The sub-abilities allow for more
efficient ability-checks, and are used in the much-improved non-weapon
proficiency checks which I will discuss later.
	Before moving on to special abilities and proficiencies, I should
explain character points (CP) to those who have not yet read the PO: SP.
'The Skills & Powers Guide' introduces the use of character points for the
generation of racial abilities, class-related abilities, non-weapon and
weapon proficiencies.  They can also be used during game-play, when
characters find themselves in tight situations.  Characters are given CP's
in all the previously stated areas when first created, and then are
rewarded points by the DM, when advancing in levels, which can be spent
on non-weapon and weapon proficiencies.

Special Abilities
 
        Once a player chooses the race and class(es) of their character
they can then purchase special abilities of their choice.
Varying according to race and class, the character will receive an
amount of points which he can spend on the list of abilities provided.
The purpose of this is to allow players to custom-make their PC's, so not
all characters of the same race and class are identical.  Essentially,
characters are stripped of the normal special abilities associated with
their race and class, and are given the points to purchase abilities
from the selection.  This includes to the standard abilities along with
some new ones.  It makes possible those unique characters we've always
wanted to make, but were never allowed to.  The 'armor-donning' mage,
the spell-wielding elven ranger ( a bit of a throwback to D&D), and the
weapon-specialist cleric are all now possible with the new abilities
system.  Thieves can learn to escape bonds, and can increase the ability
as they do their 'open locks' and 'pick pockets'.  Mages have to purchase
their access to schools, and clerics can attain major or minor access in
their spheres.  Caution to players: this is not an opportunity to create
super-characters.  (DM's can breathe now).  It is like a trade off: if
your player wants their magic-user to wear armor, and to have the ability
to specialize with a weapon, it's going to cost them within their schools.
Characters are only given roughly enough points to purchase the standard
special abilities that would normally come with the race or class; were
they not using this book.  So if they want something new, it may cost
them something old: for example, the elven ranger who has spell-like
abilities may not have infravision.  If it sounds difficult, don't
panic, it's not!  Here's an example: Saralasia, the high-elf ranger, is
allocated forty points for racial abilities.  She spends five on a sword
bonus with longswords and shortswords, five for her bow bonus, five for
the ability to detect secret or concealed doors, ten for her ninety
percent resistance to sleep and charm-related spells, and fifteen on the
spell-like ability.  15+10+5+5+5=40 points.  She is done with her racial
abilities, and can never purchase these again.  No more than five points
can be saved to use on proficiencies or game-play from this section.

Non-Weapon Proficiencies 

	Non-weapon proficiencies also work with character points, so if you've
been using those pathetic proficiency slots - have no fear - they're being
replaced.  Non-weapon proficiencies range in value from 2-5 CP's each.  Rather
than making a modified ability check to see if the character is
successful in their attempt, a new initial rating system is used.  When
the N-W proficiency is learned, the character is given an initial rating
score, which must be rolled equal to or less than on a D20 for success.
The rating is modified by exceptional scores in the relevant ability (or
abilities; scores of 14 or higher qualify).  For example, the riding
land-based proficiency check (I.R. 7) can be made using the
wisdom/intuition score or the dexterity/balance score.  Our elf Saralasia
has a dexterity/balance of 16, and a wisdom/intuition of 12.  Therefore,
when trying to maintain her balance atop the horse Saralasia has an 11
in 20 chance for success (Initial Rating modified for high dex/balance),
but only a 7 in 20 chance when attempting to control and guide the
horse.  
        Improving proficiency skills has also become a lot easier,
practise makes perfect.  The more character points spent on a N-W
proficiency, the better the rating.  After initial creation of the
character, awarded character points can only be spent on weapon and
non-weapon proficiencies, during game-play.  When used to improve
proficiency skills, they increase the rating on a one-to-one basis, (for
example, hunting costs two CP with an I.R. of eight.  The fighter Lanky Lucas
spends four CP's and has an I.R. of ten).  Non-weapon proficiencies are quite
possibly the best restructuring done in this book, my only complaint is
that it took so long!

Weapon Proficiencies

        Weapon proficiencies have not been redone to the same extent as Non 
Weapon Proficiencies.  Rather they have had a few things added to further flesh
out that aspect of player characters.  As previously stated, these too
are purchased with character points.  Weapon specialization is available
to all classes, (if purchased as a class ability) although it is more
costly for multi-class fighters, paladins, and rangers; and extremely
expensive for rogues, clerics, and wizards.  
	One new way to spend CP's for weapons is the purchase of a weapon of
choice.  Only one can be chosen per character, once chosen it can
never be changed because of the nature of the circumstance.  A weapon of
choice is a character's favorite weapon, perhaps the weapon they felt
they were born to wield.  The bonuses from this minor purchase are a +1
to hit with that weapon, and a 'discount' if the character attains
weapon expertise.
        A new level of proficiency is introduced in the 'Skills & Powers' book
called expertise, which lies between proficiency and specialization.
It's a little less rewarding than specialization, but more economical
for non-warriors.  Anyone can become an expert for the cost of three CP's, two
CP's if it is the weapon of choice.  An expert receives the additional attacks  
of a specialist, but not the attack and damage bonuses.  This does not have to
be pre-purchased as a class ability.  It is available to all classes,
thus making it affordable for non-warriors to excel in combat, as well
as warriors to be well-schooled in multiple weapons - if multiple-weapon
specialization was not pre-purchased as a class ability.  Further points
can be spent on weapon specialization leading to weapon mastery, which
will be covered in the 'Player's Options: Combat Tactics' review.
	If a character is proficient with a certain type of weapon, it is
assumed he is proficient with the fighting style associated with that
weapon. For example, a knight wielding a two-handed sword is proficient with the
two-handed weapon style.  With the PO: SP, the character can specialize
in certain styles.  For two more character points, a character can
specialize in a fighting style they are proficient with.  For example, if
the knight specialized in the two-handed weapon style, he gains a three point
weapon speed deduction (ten becomes a seven for two-handed sword), and if
wielding a one-handed blade with two hands, the knight gains a +1 to
damage rolls.  Other styles characters can specialize in include:
one-handed weapon, two weapon, weapon and shield, missile, and 
horse-archery.  Warriors can specialize in all styles, but non-warriors
are limited by their weapon proficiency restrictions.  
	Characters can also spend character points on various other abilities
which add much flavour to the game, although they are far from
necessary.  Some examples are the shield-rush and shield-punch
(self-explanatory), and armor-donning, which represents the character's
ability to efficiently bear the weight and bulk of armor with fewer
hindrances to encumbrance and dexterity.  Dungeon Masters can be again
reassured, these new proficiencies and abilities will not make
characters overly powerful.  And remember: everything in the
book is optional - hence its name 'Player's Options'.  The DM has the final
say.       

Character Races and Classes

	 Character races in this book are slightly expanded.  Although no new
races are added to the list of potential characters, some races from the
Monstrous Compendium have been brought back which were not included in
the original 2nd edition release.  Orcs and half-orcs are back, as well
as centaurs, pixies and other sylvan creatures.  Creatures from other
worlds have been included (the thri-kreen from Dark Sun), and although
not all are listed all are welcome to use the new 'Skills & Powers'
systems.  Where the writers put their foot down was the purchasing of
special abilities for these special races.  It is strongly recommended
that the abilities and restrictions for these races remain standard.
Most humanoid creatures are acceptable (bipedal, standard for limbs,
one head, etc.), up to the DM's discretion.  
        Character classes have not been changed.  However, a modified list of
character kits, introduced in the various 'Complete____ Handbook'
supplements for the classes, has been included.  Character kits are
expansions of character classes, which further bring to life these
figments of our imagination.  That 4th level fighter with plate mail and
a longsword.  Is he a soldier, or a cavalier, or maybe a noble?  Perhaps
he's an outlaw or a local hero who's risen to fame?  These are just some
examples of warrior kits for those who have no idea what I'm talking
about.  Character kits are generally chosen when the character is first
created, and they come with certain bonuses and hindrances associated
with the role of that character kit.  

        The 'Player's Option: Skills & Powers' is a much needed addition to the
AD&D list of references.  It did some much needed house-cleaning to the
AD&D 2nd edition rules, without changing the game in any substantial
way.  Most of the changes, if used, affect character generation and are
rarely noticeable during game-play, except for some pleasant
improvements in its smooth and realistic application,(for example,
those new and improved non-weapon proficiencies).  Stay tuned for more
tidbits about the PO: SP, and a review on the 'Player's Option: Combat
Tactics'.


All trademarks of TSR are fully acknowledged within this review of TSR material.
This article reflects the opinion of the author only.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DM's Advice
Earl Harrison (harrison@comsys.net)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**editors note** the maps for this adventure are available from the ezine or you
may mail the author.

Trust an Old Friend

        This game is to take place in an area where there is the possibility
snow can accumulate very quickly and then it can warm up fast.  Anyone who
lives in or has lived in Indiana knows what kind of weather I am talking about!

        Three to five characters of 3rd-5th level with the majority being of
good alignment should be able to handle this game with a moderate challenge.
A Priest character is recommended to help in this scenario.  The appropriate
spells may or may not be given at the start of the game.  The DM may want to
have the players find the spells in the spell books which can be found in the
basement level of the club house, although DM's are advised not to put a lot of
spells in these books.

        The scenario starts with the characters on a road heading to a nearby
town.  When they get in the middle of nowhere the air turns colder, the sky
darkens and snow begins to fall.  Make sure the characters have nowhere to
turn for shelter, they have to be as cold as possible when they reach the
club house.  As the hour passes, almost 8 inches of snow falls and anyone with
metal armor on with nothing underneath will start to become frost-bitten.
Anyone else will surely freeze if shelter is not found at once!

        When the snow finally slows and stops, sitting just fifty yards from
the players and a little off the road, they see a large building.  It is a two
story building with a front porch that extends most of the length of the
building.  Sitting on the porch are three swings and four rocking chairs.
The place has a few lit windows and smoke rising from the chimney.  This looks
like a cozy little place to warm up.

For the DM:

        This game only has four monsters that are a real threat to the
characters.  You can always add a few more in certain places, but that won't
be necessary if the four demons are played correctly.

        When the characters arrive near the club the demons combine forces and
cast control weather to make it snow as hard as described in the opening
scenario.  The power of the demons is much too great for the characters to have
any chance of reversing or dispelling their magic.

        After the players have entered the clubhouse and had a chance to settle
in or explore the place - as the demons allow them to do - the four demons will
once again cast their control weather spell to make it snow another 8-12 inches 
to keep the players from leaving this place for another 3-6 days.  The demons
have created a special brew and will use this to their advantage to make the
players weak enough for them to attack and kill.

        The demons were gated into this realm by a mage that found the secret
and the spell that allowed him to do this.  He found the spell in the dusty old
books which can be found in the basement level.  The demons have tried to block
off the temple section of the basement with bookcases, every 10 feet they have
obscured the tunnel with mud and rocks.

        To rid the realm of the four demons the characters can either kill them
or find the spell in the library and send them back to where they came from.
More experience points should be awarded to the players if they choose the
latter course of action.  The demons have tried to keep everything as they found
it and disguise themselves as keepers of the club house to keep their "food"
coming in.  At first they will be really nice to the players and try to get them
to consume their stew (see the recipe for demon stew in the RPG Aids section).
Remember as a DM you should not let the players onto what is happening to them.
The players consuming the Demon Stew is the whole purpose of the game.  If they
find out then the plot of the game is ruined.  Also there is 16-20 inches of
snow on the ground outside.  Where are the players going to go?  Starvation will
surely set in if they leave this place.  What might be out there looking for an
easy snack?  When the demons get the players to drink their stew they will keep
getting meaner and meaner until they have all of the players where they want
them.  Then it is supper time!  Their plan has worked for the past five years.
No one has ever escaped from them to tell the tale of what is happening at this
very expensive club and inn.  They have been ever patient in waiting for their
next meal to arrive at the doorstep.

Club Sleepy Willow

Main Floor

Unless otherwise noted in the room descriptions, all walls and ceilings are
painted white and the flooring in each room is tiled.

1.  Front Porch - (15 X 70) This large porch has three swings and four          rocking chairs all scattered about its length.  Just across the porch are     two large wooden doors each decked out with door knockers in the shape of     goblins' heads.

2.  Entrance Hall - (15 X 30) This room has pegs for cloaks all around it.
    There are two sets of pegs, one set at 3' and the other at 6'.  There are     doors to the northwest, west and east.

3.  Greeting Room - (40 X 45) In this large room there are ten small round       tables and four large sofas.  Five rugs with pillows lay scattered about     on the floor.  This room is used for social gatherings by the members of     the club.  This room looks very cozy and inviting.

4.  Latrines - (10 X 15) These two small rooms only have a pot in the back
    corner of the room and have a strong urine.

5.  Spiritual Room - (40 X 65) In the middle of this room is a very large
    statue of a weeping willow with fairies and pixies flying about.  The
    carpeting on the floor is very soft and comfortable to walk on.  The
    walls of this room have been painted a forest scene with many woodland
    animals showing their faces from underneath the foliage.  The ceiling has
    been painted a sky scene with a few birds, insects and butterflies
    darting in and out of the clouds and treetops painted there.  The 5 sofas
    in this room are extremely comfortable.  They each have a sleep spell
    cast upon them and anyone sitting on them for more than 3 rounds will
    slowly drift into a very comforting sleep that heals all wounds and
    diseases.  The four demons may tell the players this to try and get the
    players to think they really are nothing more than keepers of the club.

6.  Dining Hall - (40 X 75) In the middle of this room are three large oak
    tables with chairs spaced evenly about all four sides of each one.  There
    are 4 buffet tables along the walls, one at each corner.  The innkeepers
    will try and keep these tables as full as possible with food the players
    like to eat.  There is also plenty for the players to drink, with kegs of
    various ales, wines and other drinks readily available under the buffet
    tables.  The first couple of days the buffet tables will be full of hot
    and cold food, and then after a couple more days they will slowly let the
    food become less available to the players.

7.  Kitchen - (40 X 45) This room is where all of the food is prepared for
    the club.  It has a large chimney and open grill.  There are many
    tables, cabinets and counters for as many as 12 servers and cooks to work
    in this room comfortably.  On the southwest side of the room on the
    floor is a trap door that leads to the basement level of the club.  The
    door is covered by a mat and locked with 2 locks.  Four detect
    traps will find all of the traps on the door and the locks.  Each trap
    has 1d4 darts that are tipped with a paralyzing drug.  Save vs. Paralysis
    to avoid the effect.  If the save is missed then the player is paralyzed
    for 1d6+2 rounds.  Take normal damage from the darts.

8.  Pool Entrance - (20 X 30) This room is more of a hallway than a room.  It
    only connects the locker room to the pool area and conceals it away from
    the rest of the club.  There is a key to this room in each desk in the
    bedrooms, if anyone checks.  The key will go to each of the 3 doors in
    this area.

9.  Locker Room - (20 X 25) Around this room are storage compartments set
    against the wall.  There are 3 levels to these compartments.  About 1/3
    of these are full with various garments and other miscellaneous items.
    It is the DM's discretion as to what is in them (hidden clues to new
    adventures, magic items or just nothing at all).  There is a bench that
    goes around the room just in front of the lockers.

10. Pool - (35 X 40) The pool room houses a pool that just about takes up the
    whole of this room (25 X 30).  It is only 2 1/2' deep with a bench that
    sits only about 1/2 this deep.  The keepers will try and keep the water
    in here as warm as possible through hot coals or whatever the DM can
    dream up.  They will only keep this up for the first couple of days then
    let the water get cold and murky.

11. Storage Room - (20 X 35) This room is storage for all of the
    cleaning supplies that are needed for the up-keep of the rooms in the
    clubhouse.  Clean blankets, sheets, pillows, etc. are also kept in this
    room.  The keepers will clean the players' rooms for the first couple of
    days then stop.  They will, after another day, start sneaking into the
    rooms and messing them up.  If they are caught doing this they will tell
    the players they were trying to catch a mouse.  The DM should make up
    something different for each of the four keepers.

12.  Bedrooms - (25 X 35) Each room has a king-sized bed, a dresser, desk 
     and any supplies that are deemed necessary by the resident of the room. 
     The carpeting in this room is not what it is in the Spiritual Room but
     softer than the tiled floor in most of the other rooms.  After each
     player has chosen their room the keepers will ask if they need anything
     else.  They will try to get anything the players need, within reason.
     Inside the desk are two keys: one for the pool area and one for the
     closet and room itself.  Paper and a quill pen can also be found in the
     desk.  Each room has a permanent silence spell cast upon the walls so as
     to let the resident(s) of the room have absolute quiet.

12A. Closet - (10 X 15) Each of these closets has several pegs for cloaks
     and a clothes rod for any other clothing.  Shelves are for extra
     pillows, blankets or whatever the player needs to store here.

Basement level

Unless otherwise noted in the room descriptions all walls and ceilings are
carved rock.  The floors of each room are very hard padded dirt or rock.

13.  Wine Cellar - (65 X 75) In the center of this very large room are 5 long
     wine racks.  There are 4 layers to each rack and most of the slots are
     empty.  A clever DM could hide a few magic potions here.  How about an
     undead or two?  The floors, walls and ceilings all have dust & cobwebs
     on them, like no one has been down here for quite some time.

13A. Door Trap - These three doors are magically attuned to each other.
     When one of them is open the other two will automatically close.  
     These doors are indestructible by any means the players can come up 
     with.  They cannot be magically or physically destroyed.  Only 1 or 2
     normal sized people can fit in each of these 5' square rooms and open
     the next door.  This will be a struggle for most players to figure out.

14.  Library - (30 X 50) In this room are stacks and stacks of books of every
     shape, size, color and language.
     * There is a 25% chance that any book picked up is unreadable because
       the ink is smeared, the book crumbles in the character's hands, has
       gotten wet or is torn up.
     * There is a 45% chance that a mage or priest can read any book they
       look at.
     * A thief has a normal chance -10% to read any book that he/she might
       look at.
     * A bard has a 60% chance to read any book that he/she might look at.
     * All other classes have a chance to read any book that they pick up
       within the guidelines the DM decides appropriate to their class
       restrictions.

Remember that a person picking up and opening a cursed book has just read
anything that they can understand.

Somewhere in the midst of the large volumes of books in this room is the gate
spell that the mage used to gate in the four demons that are terrorizing the
players.  Other spell books, clues or maps to be left in this room are purely
up to the DM running the game.

14A.  Secret Door Hallway - Each of the secret doors can be found by a thief 
      with a +25% chance to find Secret doors.  Each is only a hard mud & 
      rock wall easily broken down by even the priest of the group.  After 
      the 3rd, 4th and 5th doors there is a drop-off of 15' down to the next 
      section, like a giant stairwell going down.  Appropriate damage is to 
      be rolled by the foolish players that succumb to the trap.  At the end 
      of the hallway there is a bronze door, which is locked & trapped with 
      a lightning bolt spell cast as a 7th level mage.

The rock walls, ceilings and floors of the next three rooms have been smoothed
to almost the texture of polished marble.

15.  Temple/Church - (75 X 90) This large chamber was once used by the sect
     that plagued this area. This room is completely clean.  There is no dust
     or cobwebs of any kind anywhere in this room.  The two large statues are
     of knights standing at attention as if guarding something.  The pews are
     still shiny as if they were just polished yesterday.  The stage area and
     the rugs that line it, appear is if they had just been cleaned and
     washed.  The tapestries that line the walls depict many ceremonies and
     rituals far out-dated for even the wisest of sages or priests to
     understand.  There is a locked door to the northwest.

16.  Monks Hideaway - (40 X 50) This room appears to be the hideaway for the
     high priest of the sect that once used this church.  To the northwest
     corner sits an empty pool like the one on the ground floor only a
     smaller version (15 X 15).  In the southeast corner sits another statue
     of a knight standing at attention.  Along the wall beside the statue is
     a large book case and desk.  The books are all gone and the desk has
     been cleaned out leaving nothing of value in this room.

17.  Priest's Storage - (15 X 20) In this room are all of the relics and
     artifacts that were once used by the many priests of this sect.  If a
     priest searches long enough (1d4 rounds) he may find 1d6-1 magic items
     that he may use in his/her quest to fight evil.  The items which may be
     found in this room are ones that would be used only be a priest.


Club Sleepy Willow Inn Keepers

The four inn-keepers are actually four lesser type demons in disguise.  They
each constantly try and keep up the guise for each other until they get the
players to drink the first cup or bowl of their stew.  Then they will ease up
on their disguises.

When the party first encounter them they will be shape-shifted into:

* An old man of about 70        S:10    CH:11            Dref
* An old woman of about 70      S: 6    CH: 9            Meka
* A teen-aged boy of about 17   S:17    CH:16            Samuel
* a toddler girl of about 6     S: 4    CH:12            Anez

The man and woman will tell the characters, if asked, that the boy and girl are
grandchildren staying with them for the winter months while their parents try
and build a new life for them in __________.  The DM is to fill in the town or
city that is closest to where they are.

The four of them will each try and make the characters as comfortable as
possible:

* The old woman will be in the way trying to help them.
* The old man will try and amuse them with stories.
* The boy will try and get them to do things with him.
* The girl will try to get them to play with her.

All four of them will try and get the players to eat and drink (Demon Stew  -
see Roleplaying Aids for the recipe) with them as much as possible.  Each of
them will eat & drink with the players if asked to do so.  They will be offended
if any remarks of poison or spell casting on the food or drink are mentioned.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role Playing Aides
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Knight Magus
Bill Truglio (LliumDCLN@aol.com)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Description:
        The Knight Magus is a kind of Paladin/Mage serving as the military and
disciplinary arm of religious orders centered around Gods of Magic.  They
believe the 'Arcanes' (raw magical energy) is the physical manifestation of their
gods and 'Giving Form to the Arcanes' (the casting of a spell) a sacred act.  An
order of Knights might exist for every school of magic and thus for nearly every
alignment.

Role:
        All Knights Magus belong to an Order or Brotherhood which belongs to a
particular school of magic.  This school is part of a University which in turn
belongs to the church.  The church deploys the knights sparingly, preferring not
to draw too much attention to them.  Secrecy and restraint are key elements of
the Knights Magus code of chivalry.  The Church has a saying:

	'When there is a task to be done, send a sorcerer.
	'If there is opposition, send a wizard.
	'When all else is lost, send the Knights Magus.'

        During times of relative peace, the Knights Magus are used for a variety
of tasks.  They may be required to retrieve stolen, lost or newly discovered
artifacts, aid the local populace, neutralize key opponents of the faith, etc.
When the church is at war, the Knights Magus are called upon to lead their
wizards and warriors into battle, direct strategy and tactics and protect the
Universities and Churches.

Requirements:
        The Knights Magus tend to keep their numbers thin by holding very trying
initiations and difficult requirements.  They wish to remain the few and the
proud.  First, an initiate must meet all the requirements for a paladin.  In
addition, they must also have an min. Int of 14.

Non-Weapon Proficiencies:
        Bonus: Spell craft.  In addition the Knight Magus gains non-weapon
proficiencies as do mages.

Benefits:
        As the Knight Magus is so intimately connected with the school of magic
to which his order is allied, he has ample opportunity to learn magic.  The
Knights Magus can use those magical items available to Mages and Warriors.
At 3rd level, the Knight Magus begins to gain magic user spells but only those
within his order's particular school and allied schools.  At least half of all
memorized spells must be of the knight's school.

        The Church and Universities understand how important a Knight Magus can
be.  As a result, much of the Knights funding comes from the church.  Also, the
Knights may be given Magical Items not usable by the average mage or priest.
Items such as Armor, weapons, some potions and misc. magic items and, of course,
holy swords.

Other benefits are unique to the particular schools as follows:

Abjurer - Primary focus on protection and defense.
Special Requirements -	Any Good Alignment.
Special Benefits -	Continuous emanation of Protection from Evil 10"R.
	
Necromancer - Primary focus on the dead and undead.
Special Requirements -	Any Evil Alignment.  Min 16 Wisdom.
Special Benefits -	Detect Undead at will (60" in front of knight.)

Conjurer - Primary focus on conjuration, summoning and the outer planes.
Special Requirements -	Min 16 Con.
Special Benefits -	Gain a Familiar at 1st level.

Diviner - Primary focus on detection and insight.
Special Requirements -	Min 16 Wis.
Special Benefits -	Detect Evil at will.  (60" in front of knight.).

Illusionist - Primary focus on deception and illusion.
Special Requirements -	Min 16 Dex.
Special Benefits -	Phantasmal Force 1/day.

Enchanter - Primary focus on Charm and Enchantment.
Special Requirements -	Min 17 Chr.
Special Benefits -	Charm Person 1/day.

Transmuter - Primary focus on Alteration.
Special Requirements -	Min 16 Dex.
Special Benefits -	Armor 1/day.

Knight Magus Spell Progression
	LvL KM	1st	2nd	3rd	4th	5th	6th	Min Int Required
	3	1	-	-	-	-	-
	4	2	-	-	-	-	-
	5	2	1	-	-	-	-
	6	3	1	-	-	-	-
	7	3	2	-	-	-	-
	8	3	2	1	-	-	-
	9	3	3	1	-	-	-
	10	4	3	2	-	-	-
	11	4	3	2	1	-	-
	12	4	3	3	1	-	-
	13	4	4	3	2	-	-
	14	5	4	3	2	1	-	Int 15
	15	5	4	4	3	1	-	Int 15
	16	5	4	4	3	2	-	Int 15
	17	5	5	4	3	2	1	Int 16
	18	6	5	4	3	3	1	Int 16
	19	6	5	5	4	3	2	Int 17
	20	6	5	5	4	3	3	Int 18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Demon Stew
Earl Harrison (harrison@comsys.net)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This magical elixir can become any appealing drink the demon wishes.  It will
smell, look, feel and taste exactly the way it should for the drink that it is
taking the form of.  Magic, poisons, illusions, traps or psionics will not
radiate or be detected.  The only way to detect the true nature of this drink
is for a priest to be aware of what it truly is and cast a Dispel Magic and then
a Purify Food and Drink spell upon it.  Once this is done, the stew will be
harmless and turn into a nasty, foul smelling beef stew.

If the demon brewing this stew can trick a person into drinking it, that demon
will be able to possess the individual's soul and begin to torment them. The
individual must consume three helpings of the Demon Stew for the demon to have
complete control of him or her.

The stew works in three stages:
* After the 1st helping the victim makes all saving throws against magic cast by
  the demon at him or her at -6 to their die roll.

* After the second helping the victim will not attack the demon until the demon has
  drained the person of 50% of any one stat such as Hit Points, Experience
  Levels, Abilities, etc...

* After the third helping the victim will lay comatose for 1D4 days or until a
  priest casts a Raise Dead, or a Restoration spell, or a mage casts a Wish
  spell upon the individual.

If a person does not consume the third helping of the Stew, and can escape the
demon, the effects of the first and second helpings will last for only one to three
days.

Any blessings cast by a priest will neutralize the effects of the Stew
completely as long as the person and the priest are not in the presence of the
offending demon.

If the victim is alive after the 1D4 days of being comatose, the effects of the
Demon Stew will completely wear off except for the following side effects.

- One attribute of the individual afflicted will become demonic;
- Appearance(hair color, skin color, eye color etc...)
- Attitude(alignment, sanity, etc...)

It is up to the GM to decide which attribute is affected by the side effects for
each individual that survives consuming the Stew.

This side effect cannot be removed except by a Wish spell.

Demon Stew has no effect on any demon.  Nor will it work if not served by a
demon.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fiction:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Assassins
Tim Elford (shade@tusc.com.au) AND Goran Zidar(goran@elf.aust.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Homepage:      http://www.ozemail.com.au/~goran/Archive.htm


                      ---------------------------------                       

                              - The Assassins -                               
                                  Episode 4                                   

The Assassins: Argos - Thief 1st level LE (NPC)
               Craven - Duelist/Thief 1st/1st LE (PC)
               Keldirk - Thief 1st level NE (PC)

Locale:        The three assassins had completed their voyage from the Olman
               Islands (their home for the past several years).  The Captain
               of the Sea Swift had his crew row the trio ashore on the
               outskirts of Chathold Harbor.  They made their way into the
               city and are now on the streets of Chathold, Capital city of
               The Prelacy of Amlor.

Date:          1st Needfest 582 CY (Common Year)

Time:          Just Before Dawn

                      ---------------------------------                       

The trio moved carefully through the fog shrouded streets of Chathold, port city
in the Prelacy of Almor.  It was almost sunrise and the three travelers were
anxious to get a solid roof over their heads.  Having just been deposited on-
shore after spending almost two months at sea, Craven was grateful for the fact
that the ground beneath his feet was not rocking.

Argos:         We need to find an open tavern, where we can wait until
               tonight.

Keldirk:       I'm not interested in waiting, we've been stuck on board that
               god forsaken boat for so long.  I don't plan on waiting one
               second more than I have to.  We know where this guy lives, let's
               just go there now and be done with it.

Craven:        We were specifically instructed not to contact him during the
               day.

Keldirk:       It's not daylight yet, so I guess we're not breaking any
               rules.

Argos:         Can't argue with that, but Im sure we were not expected to
               see him this early in the morning either.

Craven:        At this point I don't care what we do as long as the floor
               doesn't move.

Argos:         No we'll save that for later... after a few drinks.

They continued their trek through the streets, on their way to the home of Don
Lombard, the contact for the family in the city.  The group had been told that
Don will provide them with further instructions.  It was almost daybreak when
they arrived at Don Lombard's address.  Keldirk, frustrated by weeks of
inaction, was eager to get underway.  He strode confidently to the front of
the two story building and banged loudly on the door.

After several minutes of loud banging, the door finally opened.  The person who
opened the door was clearly displeased at being woken at this early hour. He was
a large man, strong but his bulk had obviously run into flab, dressed in only a
sweat-stained nightshirt and carrying a heavy, loaded crossbow.

Man:           What the hell do you want?!?

Keldirk:       We were told that Don Lombard lives here.

Man:           And what might that be to you..? You'd better start explaining
               or I'll squeeze this off and one of you will have a sucker of a
               gut ache.

Keldirk:       We were told he was expecting us.

The man was silent, as he regarded the three of them.

Man:           No doubt you were also told to contact him during business
               hours at his trading house.

Keldirk:       If this is a bad time, then I guess that's just bad luck.
               Please be so kind as to toddle off and wake your master before
               he comes down stairs and flogs you himself.

Man:           And who might I say is calling?

Keldirk:       He will know who we are.

Man:           But of course, my lord... how rude of me... do come in.  You
               may leave your weapons at the door and make yourselves
               comfortable in the sitting room.  I will inform my... master of
               your arrival.  Which one are you?

Keldirk:       My name is Val Rorn.

Man:           Very good sir... please.  (indicates that they enter)

With that the man stood aside and allowed the three of them to enter the house.
hey left their (visible) weapons in the entry way and proceeded to the sitting
room while the man made his way up the stairs.  Keldirk poured himself a glass
of wine before making himself comfortable on one of the chairs.

Argos:         What do you think you are doing?

Keldirk:       I'm waiting for our contact to come down stairs.  The servant
               did say to make ourselves comfortable.

Craven:        Are you really as stupid as you seem?

Keldirk:       WHAT?!?

Craven:        That was no butler, you idiot.  That WAS Don Lombard.

Argos:         (nods) How else did he know we were expected? If he was
               expecting us at his trading house, why would he tell a servant
               that he was expecting anyone here?

Keldirk:       Who cares, I don't plan on starting my career here fawning
               over someone who obviously couldn't cut it as an active member
               and had to retire.

At that point the man returned from upstairs and stood at the door to the room.

Man:           Well it's good to see they aren't turning out sheep these
               days.  But I would have thought you could follow simple
               instructions.  You were told to contact me at my trading house.

Craven:        Permit me to explain -

Man:           Im not interested in your explanations.  Your coming here
               could make things very unpleasant, or it could mean nothing.
               Just the same I didn't want to have to worry about the
               consequences... that is why you were told what you were told.
               
               (He waited several seconds for his words to sink in to the
               three new arrivals before continuing.)
               
               As you are probably aware by now, I am Don Lombard.  You
               (points to Keldirk) are Valrorn, what are your names?
               (indicating the other two)

Craven:        Craven.

Argos:         Argos.

Don:           No aliases? Your friend Val here obviously feels compelled to
               create an air of mystery, why is it that you two don't?

Craven:        Nobody would know who we are anyway, so what difference does
               it make if we use our real names.

Don:           Fine! Since you are here, I may as well give you your
               instructions. You are to go from here to Del Mord, where you
               will contact another one of our retired operatives.  His name
               is Saradok, but you will know him as Vesper.  He owns a house
               in the Artisans Quarter and lectures in trade economics at the
               Del Mord university.  Unfortunately, you have timed your
               arrival badly.  We are entering Needfest and all trade between
               Chathold and Del Mord has ceased until after the festival.  So
               I guess you are stuck here until then.  I can arrange passage
               for you on a trade caravan after that but in the mean time you
               will be on your own.

Keldirk:       Great! (shaking his head in disbelief)

Don:           Get yourselves some accommodations, and stay out of trouble.
               We don't need our newest members killed in some meaningless
               brawl before they have even started working.
               Once you have found a place to stay, send word to me - AT MY
               TRADING HOUSE - letting me know where you are and I will get in
               touch with you. Until then... get the hell out of my house
               before I really lose my temper!

After leaving Don Lombard's, they found accommodations at a tavern called the
foaming Mug.  The tavern was situated on the main road which lead to the docks.
The road was known as the Golden Road, because it was said that all of the
wealth in Almor has traveled along that road at some point in time.

They sent word to Don Lombard via a messenger and waited for Needfest to end.

It was during that time that Craven enjoyed the company of one of Chathold's
professionals.  She approached him one evening as they sat in the tavern having
a few drinks and soon convinced him to part with some of his money.  He returned
the next morning feeling very satisfied and proceeded to spend the remainder of
his nights in the woman's company.

On the last day of the festival, the City of Chathold was buzzing with activity.
The Chosen of Pelor, Arch Prelate Kevont, was to return to town after weeks
abroad and give thanks in the City Square.  The crowds started to build from
early that morning and by midday the Golden Road was a sea of faces.  City
guardsmen kept the crowds at bay, clearing a path down the center of the road
for the Prelate's entourage to travel.  The weather was perfect, almost as if
Pelor himself had decreed that no cloud should mar the perfect blue of the sky
or obscure the golden sun.

The procession started with a group of mounted Knights, the banner of Pelor
flapping at the tips of their lances as they rode their magnificent war horses
confidently down the Golden Road.  They were followed by the faithful of Pelor,
walking and praying as they made their way to the City Square.  Then came the
carriage of the Prelate, drawn by perfect white horses, wearing barding so
polished that it seemed as though there were a hundred suns reflecting into the
crowd.

The Arch Prelate himself was an old man, who could have been mistaken for any
commoner, were it not for his powerful aura.  His robes were of the purest white
emblazoned with a golden sun upon his breast.

After the procession was over, the crowd made its way to the City Square, the
streets surrounding it were packed to overflowing and Keldirk, had a field day
emptying the purses of several worshippers.  No doubt, many people went home
much poorer than they had come.  That would matter little, though, as they had
heard the Prelate speak and were spiritually fulfilled... even if they would go
hungry for a time.

Before dawn the following morning, a messenger arrived at the tavern where the
three assassins were staying and gave them their instructions.  They were to
join a merchant caravan headed for Ring-Roads, a semi-permanent encampment
where two major trade routes intersect.  They were to serve as guards should
there be any trouble, but none was expected as the roads were usually safe at
this time of the year and the caravan was large and quite well protected.  The
caravan was scheduled to depart later that day.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fireside Chat
John A. Tomkins (gr8dm@acronet.net)
Kronowing's Tale: The Battle of Chester  (viomar@athens.net) - Kotliar
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Chester is a rude, backwater village of perhaps 500 souls in the Barony
of Uwaine.  In of itself, it is of little import, save for the fact that it was
where my heroic comrades and I were given the task of stopping the advance of
the Lich-lords and their allies through Albion.  The Varangians and their Brettish
allies needed time to regroup and reorganize.  Thus, unless the Lich-lords could
be delayed in Uwaine, all Albion might be lost.  The loss of Albion would be a
disaster of global import, the balance of power on Aerdra shifted for centuries.
My people, the Siderthe, were desperately trying to reassert their influence on
Aerdra.  Aerdra had once been one of the jewels of the Siderthe hegemony.  If
the Lich-lords triumphed, the world of Aerdra would become another stronghold of
our deadly enemies, the Pelai.
        The Liche-lord's were on the march again, their vile necromancy hungered
for fresh souls and untainted fruitful lands.  Their own lands and people
blackened and corrupted by evil magics, would soon no  longer provide the energy
needed to sustain the war machine of the Lich lords. Unless they could expand
their domains, their power would begin to fade.  Battles for power  were being
fought in Lyonesse and Parthalon, as well as a dozen  places across the world of
Aerdra around this time, but none would be as pivotal as this struggle in
Chester.

	It was midnight.  I was standing in the ruins of Valric's home.  Smoke
filled the palisade enclosure of the fort.  The wounded were being carried to the
Dunjon which had been undamaged in the attack.  Half our party was being carried
on stretchers away form the smoldering ruins of Valric's home and Rodus' body had
been found charred and barely recognizable.  Valric, the son of the Baron of
Uwaine, had died when the roof collapsed. My new found friends were being borne
past me on litters to the Dunjun -  I had already set up a triage there in
anticipation of the upcoming battle.  Death had come calling early.
Some powerful mage had launched had cast a powerful Fireball spell. Hiding like
a snake in the grass, he had launched this sneak attack  against Valric's home,
knowing that my entire party would be there planning strategy for the upcoming
battle.  That was when we began to suspect there was a traitor in our midst.

	At that instant four ball of supernatural fire arched out of sky.  As
these flaming balls descended toward us, they for an instant lit up two flying
ships approaching  Chester. These were ships of the Pelai, dread allies of the
Lich-lords.  The fireballs descended form the Pelai ships into the village,
like a meteors.  Flames lit up the sky and the screams of the dying filled the
air, the piercing pitiful cries  tormenting me.  At that moment about ten  Yzarn
appeared inside the fort ripping and tearing villagers who had taken refuge there
in anticipation of the battle with the Baroness.  Yzarn are demonic creatures -
their bodies black, oily and slick. They look like some horrible amalgam of
praying mantis, shark and beetle.  Their carapaces are invulnerable to bronze
weapons, and only the magical starstone is sufficient to wound them.  Even then,
their ichor is a corrosive fluid.  They are intelligent and have sorcerers powers.
We had met these horrible creature's before, and barely defeated them when they
had ambushed us  in the woods before we had come to Chester.  Horrible creatures,
not of this world, or any world of the Helix.  Flying ships, Yzarn!  We had been
planning to strike out at the army of the Baroness, to strike out at her before
they reached Chester.  Learning  of the Flying Pelai ships, we had sought to
neutralize them  before they could be employed against us.  We had delayed too
long, and the enemy had gained the initiative, and the element of surprise.  The
battle had begun.

Lazaar, our leader then,  rushed forth towards the Middle Bailey of the fort:

        "Uthor to me! The rest of you take out those ships!" "Thar, lend me your
fury...."

        Lazaar rushed toward the Yzarn, the war-priest blood electrified by
the scent of battle, blood and death. He yelled out:
        "Uthor, we must press the Yzarn to the bridge and beyond.  The middle
bailey must be secured. Shade, rally a company of soldiers and bring them to the
bridge. Also, the moat must be filled.  I am working on that."

	Shade, burnt, bruised and bloody from  the sneak attack of the wizard,
casta Heal on himself restoring his body to full vigor. I cast a spell of
Protection from normal missiles, in anticipation of battle.  Uthor eyes flaming
with battlelust, rushed after Lazaar

        Lore rummaged in his belongings for a moment then cast a spell, he then
motioned to one of Valric's  knights and said:
	"If you have skill to use this blade, I shall give it to you, for use in
the battle ahead, and if you prove worthy of the blade, you shall retain it!"

      He then handed a glowing sword to the knight.  He then turned and mounted
his dragon.  Actually he did it with a bit of derring-do.  Lore ran towards the
golden beast, vaulted up on it, and with a flourish, pulled out and uncorked a
bottle swallowing the contents.  Then, waiting  long enough for the other
Dragonlords: Talin and Nexis to mount, he prepared another spell, holding it,
rather than immediately releasing its energies.

        Talin mounted his dragon less dramatically, then he and his dragon faded
from view, only a few telltale shimmerings revealing for but an instant that they
had turned invisible.  Nexis mounted his dragon also casting a slew of protective
spells.

        Meanwhile, the ships continued their bombardment.  Four two-foot diameter
spheres were launched  from the larger ship in a fiery whistling arc towards the
Inner Bailey of the fort.  As they descended they formed a diamond pattern.

        Having cast a Spell of Flying, I attempted to  take to the air as did the
dragons but we were  still caught by the blast. The blast (actually four
overlapping explosions ) enveloped a goodly portion of the Inner Bailey killing
or  wounding scores of civilians and soldiers, and causing structural damage.
The watchtower on top of the Dunjon careened over, and several holes were been
blasted into the palisade surrounding the fort.
        The larger ship launched its two catapults,  Two fiery balls  hit the 
main gate of the fort.  The catapult stones of the ship seemed enchanted,
exploding with tremendous power on impact, and  doing substantial damage.
        Nearly simultaneously launched from the other ship, two more fiery
catapult stones hit the village. Billowing smoke rose from the heart of Chester,
and I could see that most of the buildings  in the main part of the village were
burning.
        Meanwhile forty crossbow bolts from the larger ship rained down on the
battlements of the Outer bailey.  They were not normal bolts, on impact they
released small clouds of a noxious green gas.  Guardsmen on the battlements
exposed to the gas, fell to the ground in horrible paroxysms, their death cries
smothered in their choking throats.

        While this was happening, some fiendish spellcaster launched a dreadful
spell and thirty-two troops and sixteen civilians in the middle Bailey, suddenly
melted into pools of quivering protoplasm.   The Yzarn in a flurry of slaughter,
chewed up ten  more civilians, as Lazaar and Uthor rushed towards the beasts.
A wailing supernal voice swept over the fort: "This is your last opportunity for
quarter: We have the capability to destroy you all, surrender now or perish.
This carnage is unnecessary!"

	 From the smaller ship, five knights with glowing red eyes emerged on
black flying horses,  These horses were demon spawn, illuminated in the night
sky by  flaming manes, hooves and eyes, the demon-knights were adorned in armor
unknown in the Helix.  They wore full iron  plate armor of baroque design, and
each wore atop his helm, a coronet that glowed with a loathsome green light.
Each carried a scepter with a crystal head glowing with the same loathsome green
light.  They began to fly down toward the fort.

         Also leaping out of the smaller ship six humanoids with scaly baboon-
like heads and some natural spiked and bony body armoring. On their bony head
crests were attached feathered plumes. Five had red plumes, and one had a purple
plume. They were wearing capes which turned in flight  into large feathered
wings.  The Purple plumed critter was  carrying a glowing bastard sword, two of
the others carried crossbows,  the last three bore glowing shields and glowing
javelins.  I recognized these critters as Psthaaga, commonly used as mercenaries
by the Pelai.

        Meanwhile, leaping out of the larger ship were five winged gargoyle-like
creatures. They wore baroque black dragon scale mail of design similar to what
our three dragonlords (and Uthor) wore. Talin, Lore and Nexis  had fought these
creatures before and had taken their armor from them.  They called these
creatures Githyanki. Each of the Githyanki brandished a dagger in one hand and
a sling in the other hand.

	At that moment, things looked very bad for us. Our army had largely been
annihilated.  Smoke and flames were rising from virtually every part of the
fort and the village.  The carnage and destruction was horrific.  Yet we were
not ready to surrender!
        An observer might have thought that the Strike force of the enemy had
completed its objectives and scored a great victory.  Then our party launched
its counterattack.

	Uthor and Lazaar in an instant were on the Yzarn. They noticed that the
Yzarn seemed to be protected against their weapons by some sort of magic, so
that killing strokes bounced off as glancing blows. With his mighty magical axe
"Foeripper" raised above his head, Lazaar uttered a word of power, and launched
a magical cone of frost against the Yzarn.  Their joints froze, and ice crystals
splintered through their carapaces.  Four of the creatures were sorely wounded.
Shade casts Geas on one of the Yzarn and in a feat of magical finesse overcame
both the natural magic resistance of the demon and its powerful  will.  The
creature made a slave, he  directs it to fight the Yzarn, and to serve the party
in this battle unto death.

	In the air: Lore launched a "Chain Lightning" spell  on the deck of the
larger ship.  A Bolt of electrical energy ricocheted  through a cluster
of yellow-plumed Psthaaga. They were the crossbowmen who released the
bolts of poison gas.  Ten of the fiends were killed by the sorcery and
our more sorely wounded.  I cast a Globe of Invulnerability and flew
toward the smaller ship.  Talin prepared an Advanced Illusion spell and
Nexis cast a fireball at the larger ship.  Unlike the Chain lightning,
the fireball spell did not reach its intended target.  Instead  it
seemed to hit an invisible globe surrounding the ship exploding, flames
highlighting the sphere but not penetrating it. I recognized immediately
it as a protective magic similar in scope to my Globe of Invulnerability,
but of a scale large enough to protect an entire ship!

                The dragon Kizar-Ceowayne on whom Lore rode, spoke arcane words
and the forward catapult on the bigger ship glowed an instant a  bright gold
and then disappeared into golden smoke. The dragoness Talis-Draju ridden by Nexis
similarly disintegrated the other catapult on the bigger ship.  Both dragons
turned to confront the reavers from the big ship. The dragoness Ku-Viriathe
ridden by  Talin disintegrated the forward catapult on the smaller ship, and
the  dragoness headed to confront the reavers from that vessel. Talin released
his Advanced Illusion and an exact copy of himself and Ku-Viriathe appears about
one hundred feet above the ships and begins a diving attack run and breathing
fire on the ship.

         My companions are signaling me, I must be off.  I will not leave you
hanging but will tell you briefly of the rest of the fight.  Our counterstroke
continued on, but from that point on the initiative was with us rather than the
enemy, Still the battle was no easy fight, and we almost lost two of our
dragonriders.   By the end of the battle, some twenty minutes later, one of the
Pelai ships had  crashed, the other fled, the Yzarn had been slain, and a score
of the Pelai lay dead about the battlefield.  The price was unbearably high.
Chester lay in ruins, and our casualties were high, but we had repelled the
first wave of the evil Baroness, the Battle for Chester however had just begun,
although we would soon get reinforcements.  Still we were far from sure of
victory, and we had yet to identify the traitor........


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In The World where the Lance is Mighter than the Dragon
Jesus Negrete (74751.3202@compuserve.com)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        During the long nights in the month of Frostkolt*, guarded by
the "Night of the Eye" (as it is know in Ansalon*), Celesto,
Hackton, Eldirk, Rent, Issae and Kaddar celebrate the third year
of the completion of Fort Starshine, the central building of the
city of Slaydra.  It has been almost a year since they last left
the Fort and now they are living a peaceful life teaching their
adepts the ways of Magic, Devotion, War, and Mind.

        This could be the start of any story told by a bard during a
congregation in the center market, during a festival in any town
of the universe.  But right now I am going to explain to those
of you who are unfamiliar with the world of Dragonlance* some
terms I used.

        Frostkolt* is the month of August, a name given by the human
inhabitants of Ansalon*.  One of the continents of Krynn*
(Dragonlance* Principal  Planet), Ansalon*, is located in its
southern hemisphere and during the month of August the nights
are longer than the days and it is winter.

        "The Night of the Eye" is a very interesting and frightening
sight in the Krynnian* sky that occurs during the alignment of
the three moons of the world: Solinari* (white moon), Lunitari*
(red moon) and Nuitari* (black moon). Imagine a big white moon
in the background, a medium red moon in the middle, and a small
black moon in the foreground representing a red eye in the sky.
That is why they call it the "Night of the Eye".

        Fort Starshine is a building in the center of Slaydra, a city
the characters built after saving Qualinost* from an attack of
Draconians*.

        Before I start telling you more about the world of Dragonlance*
I would like to invite those who want to know more about it to
contact me.

        I have found Dragonlance* to be the most romantic, so to speak,
of the worlds of Dungeons and Dragons*.  This is because in this
world all things happen as a history told by a bard of the dark
ages of ancient Europe.  There are creatures threatening mankind
and their allies, dragons and evil mages, clerics and demi-gods
that form alliances to attack Orders of Knighthood, formed by
men to serve as paladins of justice.  This is the only world
where characters are permitted to use minotaurs and  ogres,
gnomes' inventions really work, entire cities are inhabited by
minotaurs, and seeing a dragon fly by is a common thing.  In
this world you can find dragons as easily as lifting a rock, and
there are marvellous weapons to destroy them.

        Next time I will tell you a story about a party that started
trying to gain fame and fortune and succeeded in building the
entire city of Lava with an incredible way of generating power.

* Registered Trademark of TSR Inc.




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Classified Ads
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Calling all Authors!
Author: (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now that we have expanded to an E-Zine, we are looking for several new
writers.  Anyone who would be interested please email me.  Particularly we
are looking for someone to write a monthly column on issues effecting the
Role-playing world.  As well we would like to have someone who could provide a
monthly column on new systems, gaming accessories, or novels. You do not need
to have any special qualifications, just a genuine desire to write and an
ability to meet the deadlines.  

Thank-you,

Karen Mizeri
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Volunteers Wanted for the Editing Department
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Volunteers for the editing department should have a minimum of first year
University English and a good understanding of grammar and punctuation.
As well they must be able to commit to doing a couple of hours a week on
editing the articles.  If you have these qualifications and are interested in
getting involved please contact Karen Mizeri at (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Knight March '97
Author: Jason Lennan (knight@phc.igs.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Knight March '97
c/o Jason Lennan
544 Ewing St.
Cobourg, ON
K9A 4Y6
phone:  (905) 372-1428
fax:  (905) 372-1428 please call before faxing

Convention Name:  		Knight March '97
Place of Convention:		Northumberland Mall, Lower Level, Cobourg, Ontario
Date of Convention:		March 14, 15, & 16 of 1997
Times of Convention:		Friday March 14, 5:30 PM to 11:00 PM				Saturday March 15, 8:00 am to 11:00 PM                                Sunday March 16,  8:00 am to 5:00 
Subject of Convention:          Role-playing, Fantasy Card Games, Board Games
Guest of Honor:                 Ed Greenwood, creator and author of Forgotten Realms.

Special Events:			Saturday Night Banquet
				Miniatures Contest
				Art Contest
				Battletech Tournament
				Magic the Gathering Tournament
Coordinators:  			Jason Lennan
				544 Ewing St. 
				Cobourg, ON
				K9A 4Y6
				phone:  (905) 372-8174
				fax:  (905)  372-1428  please phone before faxing

				Dave Stokes
				199-A Sutherland Cres.
				Unit 27
				Cobourg, ON
				K9A 5L9
				(905) 373-4871

Any help getting the word out would be greatly appreciated.  Thank you.

Yours in gaming,

Jason Lennan
Convention Co-Coordinator
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: New Champions Game
Author: (raphael@harborside.com)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hello once again, folks.  I just wanted to drop by and let you all know
that Nik has started another Hero-style game.

System: Champions, 4th Ed
Rated: R
Accepting characters: Yes
Game started: 12/1/96

The year is 2025. Red Skull has set off a series of nuclear bombs that have
killed off or crippled many of earth's greatest heroes and plunged human
society into chaos. But the Fourth Reich wasn't destined to last. Magneto,
lord of the mutants, has established superhuman rule over Earth. But his
rule is shaky. Superhumans rage and battle for territory, oblivious to the
suffering they cause. The distinction between good guys and bad guys is
blurred.

Steve Rogers, no longer possessing super-powers, but still possessing the
spirit that made him Captain America, is recruiting the off-spring of the
great heros now gone, to prove to the world that good CAN triumph over
evil.

This is a campaign set in a dark future of Marvel Universe. Players will
invent off-spring or protege's of former heroes to be the characters.
Please contact me for Character Generation info and more background.

          -James
                     Homepage: (www.harborside.com/home/r/raphael)
                     EMRoP Network Homepage:
(www.harborside.com/home/r/raphael/emrop/emrop.html) Come check it out!

Etre amoureux!
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Anaconism Jr.
Author: (anaconism.information@ibecc.org)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ANACONISM JR.
January 17th through the 20th, 1997
Lakewood, CO, USA
http://www.abwam.com/ibecc/anaconism/
Prices $35 until first of January 1997 
$45 at the door.
Get $5 off, special code: IRPSmag
GM's: Run 8 hours of gaming, get your money back!
Guests of Honor:
Steven Barnes
Jerry Pournelle (internet / space)
SnailMail:
IBECC
PO BOX 21766
Denver, CO 80221-0766 (USA)
E-mail:  anaconism.information@ibecc.org

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: New Amber PBEM
Author: (johnlotz@blacksand.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I am starting an Amber Role playing game campaign.  E Mail me at
(johnlotz@blacksand.com) for more information.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: The Anarc Society for Cyberspace gaming
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
A new gaming club has emerged in cyberspace, one not for role-
playing but for net gaming.  This new group is called The Anarc Society for 
Cyberspace gaming (commonly called the Anarc Society).  Their main 
purpose is to unite all gamers of experience ranging from newbie to expert
in a brotherhood.

The Anarc Society stresses that each member look out for each member in
every game, except when it's the weekly Society gaming night.  Though the Anarc
society uses each and every game usable over the net, Rise Of The Triad (ROTT)
is the groups official game.

Each Wednesday the gaming clan will set up many ROTT Comm-Bat
games over the specified Kali server.  Any non-member who tries to join is 
seriously black-balled and will be hunted within the years to come.

They play by a strict code, but being a member is more fun than any
other gaming clan.


For further information please see www.primenet.com/~tweed/anrc.htm

                                       - Brian Carey

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Inquiries and all submissions can be sent to Karen Mizeri at
(kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
Editing:
        Karen Mizeri  (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
             - John  "BJ"  Tomkins
             - Anthony  Scalzitti 
             - Jason Stover 
             - David M. Girardot
             - Jason Englisch
Layout/Design:
        Jenn Millington (jimjen@interlog.com) 
             - Lawrence Marz  
             - Steve Edwards 
             - Meera Barry  
HTML:
        Pete Calvert (pcalvert@economics.adelaide.edu.au) 
             - Mikko Eley 
Graphics:
        Kosala Ubayasekara (d96-kub@nada.kth.se)
             - Aries J. Galindo

Research: Andrew Henry (AHenry7261@aol.com)
Writer's Assistant : Eugene Tillery (ewulf@dbtech.net)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Publication Guidelines

Articles:
 - All articles must be submitted in ASCII.  Lines are 80 characters.
 - Absolutely no foul language.
 - Articles must be spell checked, and have an understandable format.
 - Articles must meet basic grammar requirements.
 - We accept articles in English only.
 - ARTICLES MUST MEET ALL COPYRIGHT/TRADEMARK LAWS.  This is very, very
   important.  The larger companies are starting to crack down.  IRPS cannot
   afford to be held responsible for copyright/trademark breach.  Questionable
   articles will be refused unless the author can prove they meet these laws.
 - Original submissions only please.  We do not reprint.
 - We reserve the right to not to publish everything we receive.
 - We accept role playing aids, fiction, poetry, articles on issues effecting
   the gaming world, reviews, and classified advertisements.
 - Submission deadline is the 15th of the month.
 - IRPS does not accept any material that could be deemed as pornographic.
 - Please do not use < and > in characters in your writing.
 - Do not use trademarked names in your writing.  If you must - credit them
   appropriately.
 - There is a size limit of 5000 words.  That is approximately ten pages.
 - Clearly state which section of the magazine you are submitting to.  The
   sections are: Role playing aids, Monthly Columns, Classifieds, and
   Fiction.  If you want a monthly column you must request it.
 - These guidelines may change from time to time, we reserve the right to add
   and revise as we see fit.
 

 Articles are submitted to (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca).  Any articles not 
meeting these guidelines will be returned for revision.

----------------------
Graphics:
 All submissions of graphics can be directed to Kosala Ubayasekara  at
 (d96-kub@nada.kth.se).  

 - Maximum filesize for each artwork submitted is 50K
 - The artwork should be preferable already in .gif or .jpeg format. You
   can send them in other formats also, if you have trouble converting
   them. However all artwork included in the mag will be converted to .gif or
  .jpeg format, if not already in that state. 
 - Send copies of your work, not originals.
 - Include a name for the artwork. Include also the artists name, and email
   address if applicable.
 - IRPS does not accept any material that is overly graphic or pornographic in
   nature.
 - We reserve the right not to publish all submissions.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE RPG TIMES is published as an information and entertainment service to
members of the Internet Role Playing Society. Descriptions of, or references to,
products or publications within this publication do not imply endorsement of
that product or publication by IRPS.

IRPS makes no warranty of any kind with respect to the subject matter included
herein, the game systems listed herein, or the completeness or accuracy of this
publication.  IRPS specifically disclaims all warranties, express, implied or
otherwise, including without limitation, all warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular system.

IRPS acknowledges that all copyrights remain the sole property of the author.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------




