IRPS NEWSLETTER 
March 1, 1996
Issue #3

Table of Contents:
Club Status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)
Message From The Vice President (Craig Jannsen <daili@gate.net>)
IRPS Monthly Newsletters
   Ragboy's Wild Kingdom (Paul Wolfe <ragboy@outer.net>)
   The Book of Genesis (Justin White <bwhite@cln.etc.bc.ca>)
   ROLE-playing or RULE-playing (Lafe Bagley <bagman@online-la.com>)
   R U L E S  &  R O L L S (Eduard W. Lohmann <lohmann@fwi.uva.nl>)
   Slight's Miscellanea (Steven Cox <slight@bev.net>)
Classifieds

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Club Status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	IRPS has finally filled up some of it's open officer and
department head positions also, at this time, we have several more
department head positions for anyone who would be interested in assuming
those positions.

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT --> Michael Popovich (cad@digital.net)
  Deparment of Web Resources --> Jacques Brunswick <jacquesb@worldaccess.nl>
  Deparment of Internal Activities --> OPEN (inquire if interested)
  Deparment of IRC Activities --> Thomas Charron (twolf@empire.net)
    Undernet: #IRPS --> James Adams (jmadams@primenet.com)
    Undernet: #AD&D --> Jesse Edes (leades@rapidramp.com)
    Undernet: #Shadowrun --> Adam Richard (adam@cosmos.ab.ca)

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY --> Akilesh Deperalta (adep@loop.com)
  Department of Membership Management --> handled by Akilesh
  Department of Entertainment --> handled by Akilesh
    Subdepartment CCG --> handled by Akilesh
    Subdepartment RPG --> handled by Akilesh
    Subdepartment PBEMs --> handled by Akilesh

	As for all the deparment heads, under the office of the 
President, you will all need to contact Michael Popovich 
(cad@digital.net) cause I have things I need for you to do.  Everyone in 
the department of the Secretary will report to Akilesh Deperalta 
(adep@loop.com).
	Also, if you have any ideas for a new department just e-mail
Michael Popovich (cad@digital.net) with the name of the new department,
the department's purpose, and any additional information.  If you do
come up with a good idea for a department, and if it is approved, be
ready to take the job of Department Head and ready to write a short
article about it, in search of members to help assist in that department.
	The club is also looking for new web pages to link to ours.  If
you find anything interesting out there in the vast tome of the internet
just e-mail me with the site and I'll check it out.  Also, if you think
changes should be made to the web page e-mail me with the changes you
have in mind and I'll be sure to alter the page if it's a good idea.
	Also, I have had a few inquiries about writing for the IRPS 
newsletter.  If you're interested in writing for the newsletter, all you
need to do is make sure the column/article, which you intend to write is
kept to the subject of role-playing (any aspect ranging from prices of
products, new ideas, new rules, and you're not limited to writing
adventures for any one gaming system).  As a writer, you'll retain all
rights to your article and allow us to post it on the web page and send
it out to members each month to read.  If you're interested contact
Michael Popovich (cad@digital.net) with your full name, e-mail address,
column name, and also your first article for the newsletter.  We look
forward to hearing from you.
	Also, I would love to see more members become involved with the
club.  IRPS currently has an IRC (Internet Relay Chat) channel, on Efnet, 
Undernet, and Dalnet, entitled #IRPS.  For those of you who haven't used
IRC before, it's a program which allows users from all over the world to
communicate with each other.  It's a very fun program, and I would highly
recommend it to anyone.  There are also other interesting channels on the
net which can be explored also such as #AD&D and #Shadowrun.  If you're
interested in using IRC go to the club web page, go to the IRPS homepage
located at http://ddi.digital.net/~cad and look down at the Club 
Activities section.  Just click on the hypertext entitled Internet Relay
Chat, and you'll be transported to a site contain an IRC program for
downloading.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Message From The Vice President (Craig Jannsen <daili@gate.net>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greeting fellow IRPS members!

I thought I would pass on some news. Daili's Collectibles has been busy 
with a proposal to Wizards of the Coast for the TPO product line. I feel 
that my company has a chance and have been actively pursuing the product 
line. The TPO product line is a fantasy supplement line. This is one 
reason that I have not been around and slow to answer email.

In other news:

Daili's Collectibles is now selling MTG singles and has lists available 
for customers. The prices are based on Cloister's prices and will be 
modified based on condition. 

We have received some more used rpg items in from BattleTech and ADND 
product lines. I will be getting my lists updated asap. 

Please note: 
New RPG products are 30% off for IRPS members not 25% 

Feel free to stop by on Efnet IRC, my nickname is NetFlame.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ragboy's Wild Kingdom (Paul Wolfe <ragboy@outer.net>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	"Okay," says the DM, "It takes you four weeks to reach the cavern 
complex.  Minus the appropriate rations."
	Does this sound like a the wilderness travel sequence in your 
campaign?  Sacre bleu!  If you've ever travelled overland for four weeks, 
especially on foot, you know this is the far from being realistic.  The 
wilds of your campaign world should be as colorful as your cities and as 
dangerous as your firefights.  But danger takes a different turn when a 
character is stuck in a month long road march, far from civilization.  
Danger as obvious as an animal attack and as sublime as drinking tainted 
water.  An adventure could stem from a lame horse, or from a figure 
half-seen across a prairie at night.  From sudden storms to infected 
wounds, the wilderness should offer more than an aside, or a paragraph.  
The wilds are a source of magical components, strange cultures, alien 
landscapes, and interesting encounters.
	So watch this space for interesting twists, some rules 
suggestions, and maybe an encounter or two with:

Ragboy's Wild Kingdom...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Book of Genesis (Justin White <bwhite@cln.etc.bc.ca>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
The  Foundation of a World

	Many people I know have wanted to make their own fantasy world, 
myself included.  Well, whether you are writing a novel based on the 
world, or starting an RPG based on the world, the first step is probably 
the EASIEST.  So, where does one begin?  That depends on the level of 
realism you want.
	When I made Varnaria, I wanted a whole world at my fingertips.  
Extensive culture, Extensive background, Extensive realism.  Impossible?  
Never.  I'll tell you, it was hard.  And once you have gotten it down, 
it's harder to keep things straight.  But how do you get such a 
realistic world?  There are many different methods;

	1) Write a novel/start the game and make it all up as you go 
along, marking all your ideas down when they come.  This is the easiest 
method of World Creation.
	   The players get to directly influence the world and there is 
no wasted effort if the GM/Author decides not to use a portion of the 
world that would have been developed using other methods.  A GM could be 
easily caught off-guard if a player asks something that he hasn't decided
upon. (What does the bar music sound like in this culture?)
	2)  Start making the world in perfect detail before you begin.
This is VERY time consuming, but it creates a consistant world.  If the
campaign isn't very long, or you are not going to write a lot of novels, 
you run the risk of spending a lot of wasted energy into this.
	3) Many more that I have yet to think about.

	I started using #1 when I started to write my first novel (which 
has taken two years to comlete!)  I didn't think it worked because it was 
TOO malleable.  I could do almost anything with it.  I feel safe within
boundries because if I do it without them, I'm liable to contradict 
myself.  I did that once.  In my PBeM, I told a player that he headed 
west from a swamp to a town in Eudoria.  When I mapped the area later, I 
put the swamp to the wast of the Wixian country, which was south-east of 
Eudoria.
	So I stopped, and thought to myself.  "Why don't I map this whole 
thing myself before I go much further?"  I can tell you that, depending 
on how much of a world you want, mapping can be a tough procedure.   I 
had a whole world in mind for Varnaria, but I barely got an area the size 
of the medetaranian sea done, or smaller.  I had to find another method 
of mapping this.
	I wanted a map that was unique, but was aesthetically pleasing, 
and a map that I could incorparate the ideas that I already had down onto 
it.  I found such a map at http://www.edu.isy.liu.se/~d91johol/fwmg.html 
this was a 'Fractal WorldMap Generator'  When I ran the FWMG, I actually 
used the date of my fifteenth birthday as the random seed, and I came up 
with a map that was more than suitable.  Since then, the page owner has 
added some features such as viewing the world in hemispheres, from the 
north pole, and from the south pole.  That is a site that I would 
SINCERELY recommend for lazy people like myslef.
	Now that you have a map, you may want to think about where the 
world came from, how it got to be, ecostructures, cultures, races, 
people, towns et cetera.  I'll leave detail on this 'till the next 
article.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
ROLE-playing or RULE-playing (Lafe Bagley <bagman@online-la.com>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Don't you just hate it when you're in a new gaming group and you 
realize that everyone has a different style of playing?  I think that 
the thing which bothers me most (even more than a no show) is 
inconsistant gaming style.
	You might think that's a tall order to fill.  I don't.  It only 
requires asking your players one question:

		"Are you a ROLE-player or a RULE-player?"

	Whatever their answer, you'll know who doesn't fit.  Whether you 
have a brawler or a thinker, you'll all get along just great if you agree 
on one of the above styles of play.  It doesn't even matter if you're 
using a complicated game system, it's what the focus of the game is on 
that matters.
	Personally, I am a role-player.   I use to be a rules hound.  I 
would shun any gaming system that didn't cover every possible 
contingency.  Then after I was going on my 5th or so year of playing, it 
hit me.  I was sick of rules, and what I enjoyed was getting into my 
character.
	Don't take that as a condemnation of complex games or of rules in 
general.  It's just my choice.  I realize that I am a teller of stories, 
and I prefer my game system to provide me the just the infrastructure for 
answers.  I'll fill in the details--my imagination is far more complex 
than any chart, and a lot more satisfying.
	If you are a rules hound, play with other rules-hounds...there is 
an appreciation of a well-crafted system, no doubt.  I still think of all
those charts and formulas that, for some reason, I never had a problem
memorizing.  They don't take up too much space in my tiny brain...maybe
I'll haul out my dice and roll a 20-die attack for old time's sake.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
R U L E S  &  R O L L S (Eduard W. Lohmann <lohmann@fwi.uva.nl>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

0.1       Introduction                                            

	  In response to the appearance of our advice column in the IRPS
	  newsletter #2 we received the following question from Bruce
	  Sheffer:

	  "I would be very interested in seeing an article on how the
	  different game resolution systems compare. How does a dicepool
	  system compare to a traditional d20 or percentile system? What 
	  are each's strength and weaknesses? Which is more realistic? 
	  Which is easier to conceptualize? Where do they break down. 
	  Which is more appropriate for what kind of game."

	  The following piece should answer most of his questions. 
	  Especially chapter 3 and 4. If you or anyone has any other 
	  questions regarding this piece or any other roleplaying matter 
	  send email to:

	       Eduard Lohmann      lohmann@fwi.uva.nl
	       Barbara Haddad      bhaddad@LunaCity.com  

	  If you are interested we could discuss different systems for
	  deciding skill levels next time. But this subject is much less
	  clear. Let us know.

0.2       Basic Terms 

	  The dice Notation. 

	  Many roleplaying and game systems use a similar dice notation.
	  It is usually a whole number followed by a 'D' and then 
	  another whole number or a symbol. The first number represents
	  the number of dice to be used. The 'D' simply means dice. If
	  the third part is a number it represents the number of sides
	  the dice used should have. Common dice are D4, D6, D8, D10,
	  D20. 
	
	  So 2d4 would mean: use 2 dice, both of which have 4 sided
	  numbered 1 to 4. If more than one die is used the results are
	  added together. Sometimes a number is added or subtracted. 

	  The third part of the notation can also be a symbol. A '%'
	  means percentile and 'D%' works the same way a 'D100' would.
	  Except that the result is interpreted as a percentage. In this
	  text the notation 'DF' is also used. This means FUDGE(c) dice.
	  These dice are six-sided two sided marked +1, two sided marked
	  0 and two sided marked +1. 
       
	  Target Numbers

	  A target number is a number you need to accomplish something
	  when you are rolling dice.
	
	  Skills

	  This is any numeric representation of a character that
	  represents its level of competence. Dice are often compared to
	  it. Skills are used in this article for any trait that is
	  compared to a diceroll.

	  Open-ended Rolls

	  These are dicerolls where some very good or very bad result
	  make you roll another die to see just how good or bad you did
	  at the moment.

	  GM

	  GM stand for Game Master, or the person who will be
	  leading the gamingsession.

1.0       An Overview of much used Systems.

	  Here we will describe a few basic systems that we will be
	  referring to later on. We chose these systems because they
	  represent a large part of practical roleplaying, except for
	  the diceless system. All system are assumed to be skill based.

1.1       Single Die, Skill + Die Systems

	  These are systems that let you roll a single die and add the
	  result to a skill. The result is then compared to a target
	  number, a level of difficulty or an opponents result. Maximum
	  rolls are often seen as critical successes and minimum rolls as
	  critical failures, but this is not always the case. Open ended
	  rolls can be useful here. Dark Dungeon(c) is an excellent but
	  little known example.

1.2       Single Die, Die <= Skill Systems

	  These systems compare the roll of a single die to your skill.
	  If your roll is not more than your skill you succeed. The
	  difference can determine the degree of success or it can be a
	  win/lose situation. Examples are attribute- and proficiency-
	  checks in AD&D(R). (See http://www.ms.mff.cuni.cz/acad/webik/
	  ~pmit2218/adnd.html)

1.3       Multi Die, Skill + Dice Systems

	  Here you add the result of several dice and add them to your
	  skill. Just like the single die version you compare the result
	  to a target number. Different target numbers could determine
	  the degree of success. An example is DragonNet. (see
	  dnet@cs.nmt.edu, http://www.cs.vu.nl/~wouterw/dnet/dnet.html )

1.4       Multi Die, Dice <= Skill Systems  

	  Here you add the result of several dice and if the result is
	  not more that your skill you have succeeded. Again the degree
	  of success may depend on the degree of difference. A special
	  case of this is that if your result equals your skill you have
	  only a partial result. An well known example is GURPS(R).
	  (See http://www.io.com/sjgames/gurps/)

	  This also includes systems like Champion(R) (See http://www.
	  intercom.net/user/theala/hero.html) where
	  the skill is figured from several of the characters
	  characteristics on the spot. 

1.5       Dicepool Systems

	  These systems let you roll several dice with the same number
	  of faces, the number depending on your skill. Often you have
	  some control over the number of dice rolled in that you can
	  use dice from a limited pool and decide to use them in a
	  particular role.

	  Here you also need roll equal to or higher than a target
	  number, but with this system you can have zero, one or more
	  successes. For target numbers higher that the number of sides
	  on the dies used, open ended roles are used. ShadowRun(R) is a
	  well known example. (See http://www.hut.fi/~jalkanen/SR.html )

1.6       The FUDGE System

	  This is basically a Multi Die, Dice + Skill System, but there
	  are a few special differences. First, skills and even rolls
	  are presented as words in stead of numbers. Second the
	  average skill and roll is zero. More on this later.
	  (See http://users.aol.com/ghostgames/index.html )

1.7       Percentile Systems

	  These systems are usually the same as Single die <= Skill
	  Systems. But they use a D% or D100. making use of the well-
	  known concept of percentages. Often two D10 are used to
	  simulate a D% by multiplying one by 10 then adding them and
	  finally dividing by 100. Examples are RuneQuest(R) (See http:
	  //boris.qub.ac.uk/ds/links/rpgpages/chaosium.html) and
	  Stormbringer(R). 

1.8       Diceless Systems

	  These systems are considered as an alternative for dice.
	  Success often depends on things like situation modifiers and
	  roleplaying. Amber(R) is an example. 
	  (see http://www.ens-lyon.fr/~jcdubacq/amber.html)

2.0       Math

	  Here we discuss the probabilistic properties of the
	  aforementioned systems. In general the probability for 
	  success is investigated.

	  T             Target number
	  S             Skill used
	  R             needed roll; some function of T and S
	  Pi            Probability for success type i
	  P(exp)        Probability that some expression is true
	  X             Number of sides on dice used 
	  n             Number of dice

2.1       Single Die, Die + Skill Systems

	  The mathematics are simple. All events are equally likely. 
	  Assume R = T-S. If R<=1 then P1=1 and it is an automatic 
	  success.  Otherwise,
				 X-R+1
	  P1(R) = P(1DX >= R) = -------
				   X
 
	  If X < R then P2=0 unless the system is open ended. That
	  means that if you roll X on you DX your roll again and add X.
	  Suppose this roll is called 1DX+ and R=k*X+R' with R'<X then

						     1    
	  P2(R) = P(k times 1DX+=X) * P(1DX+>=R') = --- * P1(R')
						    X^k     

	  It is not usual to use open-endedness with rolling ones. Often
	  a 1 is considered an automatic failure. Lets call this type of
	  roll 1DX*. If  R<=1 then P3(R)=(X-1)/X otherwise 

				       
	  P3(R) = P2(R)
						 
2.2       Single Die, Die <= Skill Systems

	  Here it is even simpler. All events are also equally likely.
	  If S>=X then its a success and P4=1. If S<1 then its a failure
	  and P4=0 else
				S  
	  P4(R) = P(1DX<=S)  = ---  
				X

2.3       Multi Die, Skill + Dice Systems

	  Here things start to get more complicated. Not all events are
	  equally likely. And an important principle for roleplaying is:

	  The more dice are added, the likelier are average results.

	  It is not easy to give a basic function to decide on the
	  probabilities in general. But here is a recursive one. 
	  Assume R=T-S

	  P*(R) indicates P1(R) if using the basic system
			  P2(R) if using open ended rolls
	  
		
	  P*(1,R) = P*(R)

		      R-1
	  P*(n+1,R) = SUM [ ( P*(r)-P*(r-1) ) * P*(n,R-r) ] + P*(R)
		      r=1

	  I agree that this is a horrible expression and if some
	  mathematician could solve this it may add clarity. 
	  

2.4       Multi Die, Dice <= Skill Systems

	  This is just as complicated as the previous system and the
	  solution is the same with P*(R)=P4(R).

	  In general, values range between n and nX. The graph is 
	  centered around n*(X/2) with a variance of n*(X+1)/2. If more 
	  than one die is used, the graph becomes bell shaped.


2.5       Dicepool Systems

	  In this case one is more interested in the number of
	  successes. Call Y the number if open-ended rolls that were 
	  >= T. P(Y>=0)=1, you always have at least zero successes. If n
	  is the number of dice used P(Y>=n+1)=0, you can never have
	  more successes than dice. Otherwise, with t the needed number
	  of successes

			     n
	  P5(R) = P(Y>=t) = SUM [ comb(n,i) * P2(t)^t * (1-P2(t))^(n-t) ]
			    i=t

				k!
	  Where comb(k,i) = -----------  and k! = k*(k-1)*(k-2)*...*1 
			   (k-i)! * i!

2.6       The FUDGE(R) System

	  Here skills range from -s to s and rolls range from -r to r.
	  The more dice are used the more extreme the results can
	  become. But if a large range is used extreme results are still
	  unlikely. The results are always -(r+s) <= result <= (r+s). 
	  Assume R=T-S. If R > n then P6=0. If R <= -n then P6=1 otherwise

			     round-down([n-R]/2)      n-i
	  P6 = P(ndF>=R) =          SUM [ comb(n,i) * ( SUM comb(n-p,j) ) ] 
				    i=0              j=R+i 
			      
	  Since P(ndF>=R) is the same as P(nD3>=R-2n) you could also
	  use that to calculate the result.

2.7       Percentile Systems

	  These are mathematically equal to one of the others. But here
	  X=100 and you should multiply P by 100 to get the success
	  chance percentage.

2.8       Diceless Systems

	  Since diceless systems do not rely on random factors (except  
	  GM mood-swings) there is no probability to discuss. It is 
	  generally a good strategy to keep your GM happy.

3.0       Strength and Weaknesses

	  In this chapter we suggest when certain systems are more 
	  useful than others.

3.1       Single Die, Die + Skill Systems

	  This is above all a simple system and therefore to be used
	  when one does not want to pay to much attention to mechanics
	  and more to roleplaying. The arithmetic is simple and the GM
	  can use target numbers. Target numbers are often predefined
	  in the system, so the GM can use varying difficulty levels with 
	  minimal effort. Players can figure out there chances easily
	  and can base there actions on there chances. Open ended rolls
	  are easily used in this system if desired.

	  This system makes for exciting play. The chances for very
	  high and very low results are much greater than in more 
	  realistic systems. So this system breaks down when realism 
	  becomes important. These problems become more important if a 
	  large ranged die is used.

3.2       Single Die, Die <= Skill Systems

	  This system is even easier then the previous one and has much
	  of the same qualities. Open ended rolls are not as clear in 
	  this system and skills are limited by the range of the die used.
	  GM's are forced to use modifiers to reflect difficulty instead
	  of target numbers. This may lead to too many modifiers.
	  An advantage is that skills-numbers reflect the effective skill
	  much better than with systems 1 and 3.
	  
	  
3.3       Multi Die, Skill + Dice Systems

	  Compared to the single die system(system 1) this system is
	  more realistic. Since the probabilities are no longer flat,
	  very high or low results are less likely. The more dice are
	  used the more realistic and the less heroic the system becomes.
	  Arithmetic and figuring your chances as a player are harder
	  now. That is the price you pay. Again open-endedness is easily
	  added.

3.4       Multi Die, Dice <= Skill Systems

	  The differences with system 3 are much the same as between 
	  system 1 and 2. No target numbers, no open-ended rolls. But
	  it is simpler that system 3. Systems 1 to 4 have one problem
	  in common. They tell you if the attempt succeeded and give
	  some indication by how much, but no more.

3.5       Dicepool Systems

	  Dicepool systems are complicated, but they also supply 
	  much information. They are not simple but they are elegant. 
	  They incorporate the use of target numbers and open-ended
	  rolls fit in naturally. Success levels are clearly defined
	  by the number of successes. Another advantage is that 
	  players can have a small pool of dice that is under their
	  control. This simulates extra attention of characters when
	  they use there skills in an important event and allows 
	  players more control over there characters. Since mostly
	  small range dice are used, modifiers have a large impact 
	  on the situation. All this is very suited to realistic 
	  style games and makes bad tactics deadly.

	  On the down side one needs many dice and figuring ones
	  chances is complicated. A single modifier can have major 
	  effects so players do not get a clear view of there 
	  chances. 

3.6       The FUDGE(R) System

	  This system is basically like system 3. With the following 
	  differences. Here skill-levels reflect actual effective 
	  skill as much as possible. The skill-level is also the 
	  average, expected and the most likely result. The roll
	  also directly indicates its quality. Rolling a +1 means
	  a little better than normal and rolling -3 means you usually 
	  do a lot better. Furthermore Rolling +1,+1,-1 can be seen
	  as you did rather well(+2) but experienced a minor setback(-1).
	  But rolling 0,+1,0 can be interpreted you did a decent job.
	  on the down side dF are hard to get. (you can order them
	  from Gray Ghost Games(R) see 1.6 or make them yourself)

3.7       Percentile Systems     

	  Basically these systems are the same as system 2, but the
	  range is very large (1 to 100) so it does not severely 
	  limit the range of skill-levels. The system is easy to 
	  use and complicated methods can be used to generate skill
	  levels. The system is still linear, but if rolls are only
	  considered very high or very low on a very small range, the 
	  system becomes more realistic. 

	  One can in fact simulate multi die systems by dividing
	  the range of 1 to 100 up into regions that are small
	  in the extreme end and become larger near 50. A danger of
	  percentile systems is that if one needs let say 45 or under
	  to succeed and 46 or 47 is rolled failure may seem unfair
	  and arbitrary. Therefore I prefer to use systems were 
	  rolling 1 more or less feels like a substantial difference.

3.8       Diceless Systems     

	  In diceless systems something needs to replace the role of 
	  dice. Generally situational modifiers, GM interpretation
	  and even roleplaying quality are used. GM interpretation
	  is not truly random and can lead to unfair advantages.
	  If the GM is fair, players may still view the game 
	  as biased. Bias does not need to be bad though. A GM
	  can favor actions that fit a character, improve the
	  story or actions that are just more fun. One more
	  advantage is that players are seldom distracted by
	  game-mechanics.

	  It is hard to compare diceless systems to others and 
	  much depends on the quality of the GM. Playing with
	  a good GM is fun regardless of the system used and
	  even the best system can't guarantee a good time.

4.0       Genres

	  Finally we will briefly discuss genres. In general 
	  Heroic versus Realistic, Fantasy versus Technological
	  and High Fantasy versus Dark fantasy and Horror. 
	  
4.1       Heroic

	  In heroic genres character are tough and capable of 
	  fantastic things. If things go wrong they go very wrong,
	  if thing go right they go very right. So here single dice
	  systems like 1 and 2 are useful. 

4.2       Realistic

	  But single die systems are not very realistic. In realistic 
	  games results are usually average. Sometimes things go 
	  wrong, but things are seldom disastrous. Here the multi
	  die systems function a lot better. Especially systems
	  3, 4 and 5 are appropriate.

4.3       Technological

	  In technology rich games, things are often predictable
	  once one knows what the situation is. Information tends
	  to get very valuable. Equipment becomes more important 
	  and more sophisticated. This calls for a system that
	  supplies much information. Here dicepools are probably 
	  the best option.

4.4       High fantasy 

	  Here persons tend to be powerful. The systems need to 
	  be able to handle very high skills gracefully. Therefore
	  systems 2 and 4 are not very useful. Systems 3 and 6 could
	  be used but they lack open-ended rolls which are highly
	  appropriate in high fantasy as characters often face 
	  more powerful opponents that require some great deed to 
	  defeat. System 7 uses percentages, which work fine in
	  technological settings, but they just don't fit the mood
	  of high fantasy. This leaves system 1 if you want to keep 
	  mechanics simple and system 5 if you want a lot of detail. 
	  They can be combined according to the level of complexity
	  you want for different skills. System 8 can also be used
	  to great effect, especially for creating the sense of 
	  wonder that no good fantasy adventure should be without.

4.5       Dark Fantasy

	  In dark fantasy, the world is a dangerous place. Doing 
	  the wrong thing can be disastrous and just getting by
	  is a struggle. Realism is mixed with dire results so
	  characters can not afford frequent bad results and frequent
	  great results do not fit the genre. Exact detail in skills
	  is less important. Failure is failure you learn to live 
	  with that. Here systems 3 and 4 are the obvious choice.
	  As systems 1 and 2 and 6 give to extreme results and
	  system 5 complicates things needlessly.

4.6       Horror

	  In horror characters are not powerful, monsters are.
	  Superb play and/or planning is needed to even hope to
	  defeat the enemy. System 1 and 2 give great results to
	  often and system 6 does not have the range to express 
	  the skill-levels at both the high and the low end naturally.
	  Just like in Dark fantasy system 5 and 7 are to detailed,
	  horror just isn't about numbers. System 4 also limits 
	  skill range so system 3 seems more useful if dice are
	  to be used. System 8 is also very well suited, because
	  it is much more description based as is horror.


5.0       Epilogue

	  During the final stages of writing this, I would have
	  preferred to discuss many things with Barbara. Especially
	  concerning chapter three. She could undoubtedly have added
	  much wisdom. Sadly I could not reach her through the net
	  and any oversight can only be blamed on me.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Slight's Miscellanea (Steven Cox <slight@bev.net>)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Salutations!

Welcome to the first article of my monthly column!  I'd like to take a
little space each month to provide some background information on the
article itself, and perhaps to cover whatever is rambling around inside my
mind.  First of all, this column is devoted to presenting game mech for the
AD&D system, ranging from additional rules systems to new spells and magical
items.  Who knows what I'll come up with from month to month, but I'll
endeavor to make it unique and, hopefully, fun to use!  Second, this
specific article deals with the recently-released new psionic system as
presented in Player's Option: Skills and Powers and the new Dark Sun boxed
set.  For a system that was supposed to claer up the errors found in the
original Complete Psionics Handbook system, many folks have found the new
system to be even more unworkable.  For your entertainment, presented below
is a (rather-lengthy) patch to bring the new system up to speed.  Finally,
anyone wishing a copy of these articles in their original MS Word 2.0
format, just drop me an email and I'll send a copy out ASAP.  

Enjoy!
****

S&P Psionics Revision  

By:     Michael Brown           (mikeyb@thurston.ME.Berkeley.EDU)
	Steven Cox              (slight@bev.net)

Version Information

v1.0:   Psionic Attacks and Psionic Defenses
	Charp system for psionicists
v1.2:   Virtually all the Miscellaneous information
	Expanded upon Psionic Defenses
v1.4:   Much editing and formatting  ;)
	Mass Contact, Failure Costs, and Psionic Attack saving throws
	Version information added
	Harbingers & Constructs Table

With the release of the Player's Option: Skills & Powers rulebook, AD&D
gamers are presented with a revision of the existing psionic rules.  
Unfortunately, despite the inherent potential in the ideas posed by S&P, 
there are several design flaws that need to be corrected before the 
revision could be put into test.  This article is intended to fix the 
various errors and allow players to fully explore the new psionics.

***Psionic Attacks***
Probably the most glaring mistake is evident with the revised psionic 
attack forms.  Originally, the five "telepathic attack modes" enabled 
access to an opposing psionicist's mind by establishing tangents, or a 
"three-fingered contact".  Now, before one gains access to a psionicist's 
mind, one must totally batter their defenses down, shown in game terms as 
a reduction of their PSP scores to zero.  Within this change, tho, 
appears the problem.  In most cases, the attacks require a higher PSP 
expenditure than the attacks take away from the defender!

Ego Whip:       1d6 PSPs damage per 4 PSPs      (average 3.5/4)
Id Insinuation: 1d8 PSPs damage per 6 PSPs      (average 4.5/6)
Mind Thrust:    1d4 PSPs damage per 2 PSPs      (average 2.5/2)
Psionic Blast:  1d12 PSPs damage per 10 PSPs    (average 6.5/10)
Psychic Crush:  1d10 PSPs damage per 8 PSPs     (average 5.5/8)

As shown, the average attack will cost more PSPs than the attack will 
take away from the opposing psionicist.  The surest way to lose in 
psionic combat is to participate!  This may have real-world similarities 
(such as the Cold War-era MAD doctrine), but a gaming combat system that 
discourages combat isn't very entertaining!

Presented below is the suggested "patch" for the S&P psionic attack 
costs.  They're quickly listed, but below them is presented some of the 
math worked thru to mentally test the fix.

Ego Whip:       2d6 PSPs damage per 4 PSPs      (average 7/4)
Id Insinuation: 2d8 PSPs damage per 6 PSPs      (average 9/6)
Mind Thrust:    2d4 PSPs damage per 2 PSPs      (average 5/2)
Psionic Blast:  2d12 PSPs damage per 10 PSPs    (average 13/10)
Psychic Crush:  2d10 PSPs damage per 8 PSPs     (average 11/8)

First, there is the necessity to make these psionic attacks cost-
efficient.  There is simply no psionicist in his right mind (no pun 
intended) who would use the attacks as presented in S&P.  If a psionic 
attack is going to be employed, it must make a "PSP profit", and in most 
cases, a sizable profit.  As shown above, every attack now will do more 
PSP damage than it costs to utilize, on the average.  The chance of 
"going into the black" is still present, however.

Second, given the fact that a psionicist may pick which psionic attacks 
they gain as they advance levels, some incentive is needed to make the 
lower-powered attacks more tempting to use.  This is accomplished by the 
lessening percentage of PSP "profit" with the more powerful attacks.  
Here are some numbers to toss around:

Ego Whip:       75% profit average      16% not profitable
Id Insinuation: 50% profit average      24% not profitable
Mind Thrust:    250% profit average     6% not profitable
Psionic Blast:  30% profit  average     31% not profitable
Psychic Crush:  37% profit average      28% not profitable

To clarify, Ego Whip does an average 7 PSPs of damage, or a 75% profit,  
per 4 PSP expenditure.  To be non-profitable, one would have to do 2-4 
PSPs of damage which occurs only 16% of the time.  As the maximum amount 
of PSP damage per power rises, the profitability lowers and the chance to 
be non-profitable increases.  While its the better tactic to try to drain 
the opposing psionicist's PSPs as quickly as possible, using a slower 
psionic attack has its advantages.

But this brings to light another problem.  Now that the cheaper attacks 
are comparatively better than their higher-cost brethren, what is 
stopping the psionicist from not even bothering with the more expensive 
powers?  For example, why invest 20 PSPs (or 2 "units" of PSPs) into 
Psionic Blast when one could invest 20 PSPs (10 "units") into Mind Thrust 
and get better results?

One method to prevent this abuse is to put a PSP unit cap on each power,
something like 4 units per round.  As such, a better power like Mind 
Thrust is topped off at 8 PSPs, while the more difficult power of Psionic 
Blast could throw 40 PSPs around in a single round!  This reduces the 
min/maxing abuse inherent in the revision, while also slowing down high-
level psionic combat.  Do we really want to see a 200 PSP Mind Thrust 
utilized?

An alternate method of dealing with the min/maxing problem (and if you 
are willing to do the math) is to have each additional "unit" of PSP 
damage rise in cost exponentially, doubling the cost with each additional 
unit.  Or you may want to use "cost stacking" in which the cost of 
succeeding attacks is the sum of the previous attacks (of the two 
methods, the latter is suggested as the more fair option).  For example:

Mind Thrust:    2 PSPs/2d4 PSPs damage  (base)
(exponential)   4 PSPs/4d4 PSPs damage  (2*2)
	8 PSPs/6d4 PSPs damage  (4*2)
	16 PSPs/8d4 PSPs damage (8*2)... and so on.

Mind Thrust:    2 PSPs/2d4 PSPs damage  (base)
(cost-stacking) 6 PSPs/4d4 PSPs damage  (4+2)
	12 PSPs/6d4 PSPs damage (6+4+2)
	20 PSPs/8d4 PSPs damage (8+6+4+2)... and so on.

These two options remove the need for the artificial PSP "cap", allowing
high-level psionicists to exact serious damage in a single round, but at 
a terribly inefficient cost ratio.  Sometimes speed is worth it!


***Psionic Defenses***
Another major problem is with the psionic defenses.  Under S&P rules, 
when an attack and defense collide, one cross-references the powers on 
the Psionic Attacks vs. Psionic Defenses Table.  Depending on which 
powers are facing off, a MTHAC0 bonus or penalty is assigned to the 
attacking psionicist.  Note an unusual property of this table - there is 
a 40 to 60% probability that any given psionic defense will make one 
more likely to take damage from a psionic attack!  The below numbers are 
an attempt at making all the attacks, no matter their comparative power, 
be a better defense than no defense!

Note: These numbers are bonuses to the user's bases MAC.  For example, 
using Tower of Iron Will against Mind Thrust grants a +10 MAC.  This 
represents a minor change in how defenses are viewed, but hopefully is 
an improved viewpoint.

	       Thought   Mind   Mental   Intellect   Tower of
	       Shield    Blank  Barrier  Fortress    Iron Will
Mind Thrust     10       0      5        9           10
Ego Whip        0        5      10       9            8
Id Insinuation  0        10     7        3            7
Psychic Crush   4        3      2        7            9
Psionic Blast   1        3      4        6            7

New suggested costs:  1/2/3/4/5 for Thought Shield to Tower of Iron Will, 
in that order.  Statistically, this scheme has the attack modes meeting 
less and less average defense (6.8/6.4/5.4/5/4.2) as the attacks power 
up.  The average defense provided by each power increases with cost: 
(3/4.2/5.6/6.8/8.2).

Presented below is an reminder on how the various psionic attacks and
defenses operate:

Mind Thrust:  This mental attack is representative of the psi forming 
physical "attacks" with his mind; forming mental swords, blasts of fire, 
etc, and sticking his opponent with them. 
 
Ego Whip:  This attack beats the target's emotions into paste; smashing 
him with waves and symbols of despair, anguish, anger, and drowning him 
in misery.  It is the manifestation of "pure" emotion. The Dark Sun 
supplement, The Will and the Way, suggests harbingers like the Slave 
(despair), or the Templar (betrayal).

Id Insinuation:  This attack mode is often described as the equivalent of 
a "mental poison"; when it strikes it sickens and weakens the target's 
will and self-image, allowing his subconscious to run rampant and, as 
noted in the Psionicist's Handbook, "driving him crazy".  Id insinuation 
often takes the form of a poisonous gas or serpent-like monster; sneaking 
around the psi's defenses or driving a poisonous fang right through them.

Psychic Crush:  The psionicist generates "overwhelming forces" to smash 
his enemy's mind.  This is another relatively "physical" attack, taking 
the form of giant boulders, behemoth-type monsters, natural disasters 
like earthquakes in the mental landscape, etc.

Psionic Blast:  The most devastating attack mode is the ever-popular 
Psionic Blast, which generates a ferocious burst of mental energy and 
can take, reasonably, any "physical" form; a hail of missiles, a blast of 
dragon's breath, etc.  Dark Sun gives Psionic Blast the attributes of a 
vicious beast that tears and shreds the target into gory bits. The 
defining characteristic of this attack is the power behind it; the only 
real way to protect against it is to have as powerful a defense as 
possible.  The more expensive the defense mode, the better defense it 
provides.

Thought Shield:  This defense mode generates "physical armors" for the
psionicist's mental personae.  This provides excellent defense against 
Mind Thrust's physical attacks (sword vs. shield); and some against 
Psychic Crush (also physical).  It doesn't really have any application 
to protecting the user's emotions, so it provides no defense against Ego 
Whip, and the poisons of Id Insinuation just slip past the armor.  
Psionic Blast just overpowers it completely, although the physical armor 
helps a tiny, tiny bit.  
Note: unlike the presentation of the Psionicist's Handbook, Thought 
Shield is the weakest defense, not Mind Blank (which, as a defense 
technique, has more utility).

Mind Blank:  This defense mode "hides" the mind; clouding it in a 
confusing landscape - forests, a thick fog, darkness, etc.  This provides 
good defense against Ego Whip, since the mind is "hiding in the closet" 
and the "door" muffles the attack.  Id Insinuation is totally foiled 
because it can't find the right place to "bite".  The hiding technique 
isn't as effective against the physical attacks - Psychic Crush defeats 
it easily because of the "size" of the crushing attack (sure, you're 
hiding in that copse of trees, but what good does that do when a 
landwhale is smashing the whole thing down?).  Mind Thrust's directness 
punches right through deception, and hiding from it will do one 
absolutely no good.  Hiding might protect you from Psionic Blast a 
little, but its harbingers either smash the entire hiding place at once, 
or, as "animals", can hunt through it.  

Mental Barrier:  This is the "concept" defense - the psionicist fills his
mind with a powerful and consuming thought, like "Truth" or "Pure Will" 
or even "Hatred" or "Denial" - you name it.  This provides great defense 
against the "emotional" attack of Ego Whip (which is snuffed).   Id 
Insinuation's poisons can't find purchase - a mind focused on "Truth" 
transcends its subconsciousness and can't be dislodged - one that is 
denying the attack's very existence renders the poisons feeble.   Mental 
Barrier is a reasonably powerful defense, and the power behind it even 
mitigates the ferocity of Psionic Blast to some degree; calming the 
beast within, so to speak - but not very much. Mental Barrier provides 
good strength against Mind Thrust as well, due to its "overpower" and the
fact that these concepts, given form, somewhat confound the weaker, 
direct attacks of Mind Thrust.  How can one "stab" the Truth?  
Unfortunately,  Mental Barrier is confounded utterly by Psychic Crush, 
which destroys the defender along with his petty concepts.....

Intellect Fortress:  This defense girds the psionicist into the fleshly 
form of an incredibly tough monster - a "living fortress". An ironwood 
tree, a Dragon Turtle, Dinosaur, Tarrasque, an a giant Beetle are all 
good examples of the Fortress constructs.  These provide great defenses 
against all "physical" harbingers, and the "living" nature of the beasts 
bolsters the psionicist against Ego Whip.  Id Insinuation is its 
weakness - poison goes right to the heart of the living beast.

Tower of Iron Will: This is the ultimate in defense - building a lonely,
desolate fortification, strong walled and hard to reach. The psionicist 
puts his psyche deep in the center of this haven.  This defense takes 
the form of Castles, or lonely Towers.  This protects against 
everything - the hidden mind is protected from Ego Whip, "physical" 
attacks fail against its ramparts.  It is weakest against Psionic Blast
(strong attack) and Id Insinuation (which can form poisonous vapors and 
slip in the "windows" or find a hidden entrance - although not easily).

***Charp System for Psionicists***
One consistent complaint about the S&P revision of psionicists was the
neglect to include the charp system rules for that class which the rest 
of the book presented.  The following are suggestions for implementing 
such a charp system for psionicists.  Note that it would take an 
extensive list to fully upgrade S&P to use a charp psionicist.  In cases
where the rules might be unclear, consider a psionicist follows the 
guidelines for rogues.  Also, DM's should feel free to add new charp 
purchasable skills/restrictions as necessary, as this is a very 
customizable part of the entire character creation process.  

Psionicists (beginning charps: 40)
The standard psionicist purchases access to disciplines (25), psionic
attacks/defenses (5), followers (5), and saving throw bonus (5).

Access to Disciplines (5-25): It costs 5 points per discipline to which 
the psionicist has access.  For example, if the psionicist wanted access 
to 4 disciplines, it would cost 20 charps.  The standard psionicist 
purchases all 5 disciplines for 25 charps.

Psionic Attacks/Defenses (5): Psionicists who purchase this ability gain
psionic attacks and defenses automatically by level advancement.  The 
rate of acquisition is listed in S&P, p.154, Table 80

1d8 for Hit Points (10): Psionicists with this ability use 1d8 to 
determine their hit points instead of 1d6.

Followers (5/10): By purchasing this skill, a psionicist can gain 
followers as described in the Complete Psionics Handbook if he builds a 
sanctuary and is at least 9th level.  If this is purchased as a 10 point 
ability, the fighter can attract followers whenever he establishes a 
sanctuary, regardless of level.

Saving Throw Bonus (5): Psionicists with this ability gain a +2 bonus to 
all saving throws vs. enchantment/charm spells.

Warrior Hit Point Bonus (5): A psionicist with this ability can enjoy the
benefits of a high Con score as if he were a fighter.  For example, a 
psionicist with Con 18 would gain 4 bonus hp instead of 2.

Armored Psionicist (15): This psionicist can use his abilities while 
wearing the armor of his choice.

Weapon Specialization (15): The psionicist can specialize in a particular
weapon.  The charp cost for gaining proficiency and specialization in the 
weapon must be met in addition.  

Discipline Focus (10): The psionicist's MTHAC0 scores in his primary 
discipline are increased by +2.

Combat Bonus (10): A psionicist with this ability uses the priest's THAC0 
table.

Optional Restrictions
No Weapons/Armor (5): The psionicist may not use any weapons or armor.

Limited Magical Item Use (5+): A psionicist with this restriction 
disdains enchanted items as a crutch for the weak and refuses to use 
certain categories of magical items.  For each barred category, he 
receives 5 charps.  The categories are: potions, oils, and scrolls; 
rings, rods, staves, wands, and miscellaneous magical items; all magical 
weapons and armor.

Note that Contact (ie - psionic attacks) have been changed over to be a
class ability, not treated as a nonweapon proficiency (an ill-fated 
idea, in our opinion).  When dealing with Wild Talents, it is suggested 
to allow them to use charps from their true class to purchase the 
psionicist Psionic Attacks/Defenses ability, and to spend additional 5
charp increments in the future to gain additional attacks (ie- Wild 
Talents don't follow the true psionicist's attack/defense acquisition 
rate, but must purchase them when able).

Here are the suggested charp cost/relevant stats for the psionicist's 
NWPs:

Name                NWP cost    Init Rating
Harness Subconscious    4       5
(Wisdom/Willpower)              
Meditative Focus        3       7
(Wisdom/Willpower)              
Rejuvenation            3       6
(Wisdom/Willpower)              
Mental Armor            3       5
(Wisdom/Willpower)              


***Miscellaneous***
The S&P psionics revision created further problems, some of which are 
unnoticed until studied with a careful eye.  Presented below are some 
conceptual errors that need to be changed to make the system playable.

Stealthy Psionicists:  The change to the nature of psionic contact 
appears to have drastically weakened the psionicist when it comes to 
making contact quietly and without notice.  Back in the Psionics 
Handbook, the psionicist could enter a victim's mind without notice using 
the Contact power.  Under S&P rules, the only method to enter a victim's 
mind is by psionic attack.  As described in the Psionics Handbook, 
contact by psionic attack feels "like a tiger has unsheathed its claws 
in your head".  This is about as far from subtle as possible!  How could 
powers such as Daydream, False Sensory Input, and Invisibility operate, 
when their surprise factor highly reduced or simply eliminated?  

While contact will always present itself as a sudden mental pain 
(probably best compared to a headache, perhaps migraine level), this does 
not necessarily point towards psionic intrusion.  Since psionics is rare 
in most campaigns, it's very unlikely that a sudden headache will be 
linked to a psionic attack.  Given the general state of health of the 
average medieval citizen, headaches were probably a quite common 
occurrence.  DMs may want to handle whether or not targets of contact 
recognize the attempt as contact in a similar method as adjudicating 
illusions.

Clever psionicists will disguise their contacts with other painful
activities - an earsplitting noise, a whack on the head, or even telling 
the victim he's been given a drug.  Anything to give the victim a reason 
to suspect that the sudden headache is being caused by normal 
circumstances, or at least abnormal circumstances that don't relate to 
psionics!

For players of psionic characters who wish to bring back the truly 
stealthy psionicist, you might want to allow psionic attacks with a -5 to 
-10 MTHAC0 modifier to establish contact without causing an obvious 
mental pain.  A subtle contact shouldn't be easy - part of the spirit of 
the new rules is that no psionicist can manipulate a victim's mind 
without some tell-tale clues.  Remember that one of the main complaints 
about the Psionics Handbook was that the powers were too stealthy!

Closing An Opened Mind: The S&P psionics revision has made it much easier
for non-psionicists to protect themselves with the ability to close an 
opened mind.  However, this reduces the effectiveness of psionic powers 
that normally have long duration, such as Fate Link.  The problem can be 
solved by redefining the effects of closing an opened mind.  First, 
closing one's mind prevents the activation of any new telepathic powers 
against the target, until the mind is re-opened.  Second, this prevents 
exercising any active powers already established.

In other words, passive powers such as Fate Link that have been 
"implanted" into a victim while having an opened mind will not be severed 
if the victim manages to close his mind.  Even active powers such as 
Domination that have been implanted will not be severed, but no active 
control can penetrate the closed mind.  In many ways, this is similar to 
the effect of a Protection from Evil spell.  Powers remain in place if 
the psionicist continues to pay maintenance costs, as the psionicist has 
a "foot in the door".  When and if the target's mind is re-opened, the 
implanted powers can again be accessed and controlled.

Example: A Dominated victim could not be controlled after the he manages 
to re-close his mind, but, if the maintenance costs are paid, the 
psionicist won't have to reactivate Dominate once he re-opens the 
target's mind.

Level Modifications: It has been suggested that a system be installed 
that makes it more difficult to resist higher-level psionicists.  This 
problem is present throughout the AD&D system, and has finally been 
touched upon by the presentation of Saving Throw Modifications by Level, 
a set of new rules presented within the DMs Option: High Level Campaigns 
sourcebook (table 36, p.143).

For example, let's consider a 7th level fighter attempting to close his 
mind from the intrusions of a 12th level psionicist.  When the fighter 
makes his saving throw vs. paralyzation, his roll would normally need be 
10 or better.  Due to the higher level of his psionicist attacker, this 
saving throw is penalized, requiring a 14 or better.  If the fighter were 
to have been of higher level than his attacker, the saving throw would
have received a bonus.

Presented below is the Psionicist's saving throws by caster level or hit
dice (yes, this is the same as the rogue chart as presented in HLC):

Target's Class  Target's Level  Paralyze/Death Magic    Petrify/Polymorph       Spells
Psionicist      -9 or more        13                         12                  15
		-5 to -8          12                         11                  13
		-1 to -4          11                         10                  11
		0                 10                         9                   9
		+1 to +4          9                          8                   7
		+5 or more        8                          7                   5

Range Limitations:  With the loss of the unlimited range Contact power,
replaced by the psionic attacks, the range of many of the telepathic 
powers have been greatly reduced.  As the psionic attacks are limited to 
line-of-sight targeting, what good are powers such as Mindlink, Send 
Thoughts, and Sight Link?  Sending thoughts to comrades across the room 
isn't nearly as useful as sending thoughts across the globe!  

To handle this limitation, it's suggested that the non-attack 
communication powers be granted an innate contact ability, allowing for a 
much greater range.  This gives the powers the ability to "knock on the 
door and ask to be let in" - to carry an announcement and request a 
voluntary contact.  

For these powers, use the old Contact rules found in the Psionics 
Handbook to determine cost modifiers for range:

Separation Distance     Power Score Modifier
Line-of-sight                             0
1 mile                                   -1
10 miles                                 -3
100 miles                                -5
1,000 miles                              -7
10,000 miles                             -9

For example, consider a psionicist who wishes to give a message to an old
friend who happens to live an another city nearly 100 miles away.  
Instead of having to use a psionic attack on his comrade (which isn't 
very friendly, and besides, the city is way beyond LOS), the psionicist 
uses the innate, albeit limited, Contact of Send Thoughts.  The 
psionicist makes his MTHAC0 roll at -5 for the distance involved, and 
reaches out across the distance and politely requests that his friend 
open his mind to accept a message via Send Thoughts.  This limited form 
of Contact cannot force a target's mind open, nor can it by itself convey 
any information beyond who the Contactee is.

PSP Acquisition:  Similar to the inherent problem behind the S&P psionic
attacks, the rate of PSP acquisition between psionicists and wild talents 
is skewed.  Psionicists are listed as gaining 1d6 PSPs per level, while 
the wild talents gain a flat rate of 4 PSPs per level.  For the 
statistically challenged, the average value of 1d6 is only 3.5 - purebred 
psionicists will have fewer PSPs than their equivalent wild talents?  

There is another fault to be considered in PSP acquisition - the 9th 
level PSP ceiling.  Akin to the slowdown point of hp acquisition at 9th 
level, the psionicist is reduced to a 3 PSPs per level gain once reaching 
that level (altho the wild talent is still gaining his flat rate 4 PSPs!)  
These problems are simple to fix:

1) Psionicists receive 8 PSPs per level         (plus any bonuses from Con, Int, Wis)
2) Wild Talents receive 1d6 PSPs per level      (no bonuses possible)

The rationale behind these values is easy to see.  Psionicists are, quite
obviously, the specialists of psionic skill.  They should receive a flat 
rate of PSP acquisition, and an appreciable rate at that.  3.5 PSPs per 
level dampers the class to such a degree that be barely functional.  Wild 
talents, on the other hand, are just the candidates for random PSPs.  
Having gained their powers thru sheer luck, without any training or 
discipline, their power level should be decided by luck as well.

Mass Contact:  The high science of Mass Contact, listed in The Will And 
The Way, needs to be updated to correspond with the new rules.  To use 
this power under the modified rules, very few changes need to be made, 
however.  The power is still considered a high science, and must be 
purchased like normal psionic powers:

Mass Contact
Telepathic High Science
MAC: special
PSP special
Range: special
Area of Effect: special
Prerequisite: 10th level

Mass Contact is the High Science of Telepathy.  It allows the telepath to
psionically attack a number of minds at the same time instead of 
attacking each subject individually.  The user picks which one of the 
five normal psionic attacks to use and may now use it to attack a group, 
limited by the normal range of the chosen power.  

The cost of Mass Contact is the sum of the power usage against each 
target as if the psionicist would have attacked each target individually.  
For each additional target past the first, the psionicist's MTHACO roll 
is penalized by -1.  One attack roll is made for *all* the attacks, and 
one attack is made for *all* of the power activations.  Mass Contact is 
an all-or-nothing proposition.  

For example, consider a high-level psionicist (MTHACO: 10) using a Mass
Contacting-Mind Thrust on 10 low-level targets (MAC: 10) within range.  
The psionicist spends 2 PSPs (the base cost of Mind Thrust) times 10 (the 
number of targets) for a total of 20 PSPs.  The attack roll is penalized 
by -9, so the psionicist needs to roll an 11 or better to succeed.  
Assuming the psionicist succeeded with this attempt to open his target's
minds, he can then go on to make another psionic attack that same round.  
Now the psionicist uses a Mass Contact-Id Insinuation to bludgeon his 
foes.  He spends 6 PSPs (base cost of Id Insinuation) times 10 (number 
of targets) for a total of 60 PSPs and makes another attack roll at -9.  
If effective, all ten targets are left dazed and confused for 1d4 rounds.

Mass Contact is a High Science and cannot be selected as a science 
without first engaging in extensive meditation (as outlined in The Will 
And The Way).

Psionic Vampirism:  Under the new psionic rules, the Psionic Vampirism 
power (as presented in The Will and the Way) overlaps the function of 
the new psionic attacks, as well as being inconsistent with some of the 
new core rules.  Presented below is the revised Psionic Vampirism power

Psionic Vampirism
Psychometabolic Devotion
MAC: 8
PSP Cost: 8/3
Range: touch
Area of Effect: Individual
Prerequisite: none

Psionic vampirism is the much feared ability to steal another's psionic
strength in order to replenish the psionicist's own.  Although it 
resembles psychic drain, psionic vampirism is different in three 
important ways: first, PSPs are directly drained; secondly, the victim 
need not be asleep; and third, the victim need not be humanoid, it only 
need a PSP pool.  Psionic vampirism is a very painful process, but is not 
debilitating as psychic drain can be.

To begin draining PSPs, the psionicist must first make his MTHAC0 roll
against this power's MAC.  This roll also determines the amount of PSPs 
drained per usage of the power (as below).  Once established, the 
psionicist must touch the target to be drained, requiring a to-hit roll.  
A successful touch attack is necessary for each round of draining 
desired.

MTHAC0 Roll     PSP Drain
19-20           3 PSPs
17-18           5 PSPs
13-16           7 PSPs
10-12           9 PSPs
8-9            11 PSPs
6-7            13 PSPs
5 or less      15 PSPs

Although no permanent damage is caused by this power, it is unpleasant to
the extreme and the victim will almost certainly not want to voluntarily 
experience this drain!  Psionic strength drained by this power returns 
normally, just as if the victim had expended the PSPs himself.  If the 
victim is drained to 0 PSPs by psionic vampirism, he must make a saving 
throw versus death or fall unconscious for 2d6 turns.

Power Score:    Rate of PSP drain doubles.
20:             The power backfires; the user loses half of his remaining 
		PSPs.

Failure Costs of Psionic Attacks:  If a psionic power is attempted and
failed, the user must still pay a small PSP cost, between 30-50% of the 
power's true cost.  However, this doesn't hold true of the psionic 
attacks.  No matter how many units of PSPs are pumped into these attacks, 
the user still pays only 1-5 PSPs if the power were to fail.  The reason 
is that, under the existing rules, the amount of PSP units placed in an 
attack are determined after the attack roll is made.  This makes for both 
unrealistic failure costs and removes strategy from psionic attacks.

The PSP units should be declared before the attack roll is made.  If the
attack roll fails, the user pays the regular failure cost times the 
number of units.  For example, Ego Whip costs 4 PSPs per unit and 
normally has a 2 PSP failure cost.  If the user intends to fire off a 20 
PSP (5 unit) attack with this power and fails, the failure cost would be 
10 PSPs (5 units times a failure cost of 2).

Also note that disrupted psionic powers (unlike failed psionic powers, as
mentioned above), normally cost 1 PSP when disrupted.  If a psionic 
attack is disrupted, multiply the cost by the number of units.  As in the 
example above, an Ego Whip attack using 5 units of PSPs would cost 5 PSPs 
if disrupted.

Psionic Attacks & Saving Throws:  It has been suggested that some of the
psionic attacks are too potent to not allow saving throws, with Ego Whip 
and Id Insinuation being noted most often as the offenders of the group.  
If these powers do seem rather nasty, simply allow saving throws vs 
paralyzation to negate the effects of the attack.  The other three 
psionic attacks don't appear to need such saving throws, but could be 
incorporated if felt necessary.  Psionic Blast and Psychic Crush could 
have saves for half damage, if so desired, but it is the opinion of the 
author's that these powers are expensive and limited enough as-is.

Some might think that saving throws for Ego Whip and Id insinuation go to
far to reducing the effectiveness of these powers.  An additional option 
is to allow the psionicist to force saving throw penalties by pumping 
more PSP units into the attacks.  Simply have each additional unit 
invoke a -1 to the target's saving throw.  This makes it much more likely 
that a high-level psionicist (with plenty of PSPs) will be able to force 
thru an opponent's mind even with a saving throw attached to the psionic 
attacks.  If using the level-modified saving throws mentioned earlier in 
this article, it probably isn't necessary to add this option.

Receptacle Usage & New Combat Rules  One of the more useful powers a 
psionicist can have access to is Receptacle, which enables one to store 
PSPs within a gem or an Empowered item.  A psionicist using Receptacle 
effectively doubles his PSP pool, drawing stored PSPs out of the item as 
needed.  This ability holds a potential problem under the new psionic 
combat rules.  Now that psionicists can "pump up" their psionic attacks, 
access to a larger PSP pool becomes abusive.  It is suggested that, under 
S&P Psionic rules, that Receptacle only allows a transfer rate of PSPs 
from the item to the psionicist at a rate of 1 PSP per round.  This 
change removes the use of Receptacle to drastically increase a 
psionicist's power, while still allowing the psionicist assess to 
additional PSPs.  Basically turning a Receptacled item into a type of 
PSP battery, allowing the user to "recharge" quicker than normally 
allowed.

Single Cost or Initial/Maintenance Costs?  As presented in the Complete
Psionics Handbook, psionic powers originally possessed two different 
costs - an Initial Cost and a Maintenance Cost.  In an attempt to 
simplify psionics, the S&P rules incorporated a single PSP cost per 
round, a cost that is generally less expensive than the original Initial 
Cost, but more expensive than the Maintenance Cost.  The better method is 
a matter of personal choice, as both methods work out be be roughly 
equal.  However, note that the original costs are more beneficial towards 
maintainable powers, while the new S&P rules lend themself to one-shot 
powers.  We suggest using the original PSP costs for their more 
interesting game dynamics, but if simplicity is desired, use the new PSP 
costs.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Classifieds
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you have something which you are looking for, wish to sell, or are
looking for gamers in your area and wish to post an add into the 
newsletter just e-mail me the add.  For members this is free and we 
encourage everyone to use this as a means of communication.  Just address
all classifieds to Michael Popovich (cad@digital.net) to be added into
the newsletter.
