IRPS NEWSLETTER
August 1, 1996.
Issue #8

Table of Contents:

IRPS Monthly status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Columns:
  IRPS Internet Programming Project (Jared Nielsen <grafx1@airmail.net>)
  Fires of the Heart  (Thom Allen <allent@MAIL.WSU.EDU>)
  Rambling Thoughts (Kosala Ubayasekara <kosala@dataphone.se>)
  DM's Advice (Earl Harrison <harrison@comsys.net>)
  Battle Lust (Aaron Harrier <dharr@penn.com>)
  Top Ten  - Famous Last Words  (John "B.J." Tomkins <gr8dm@acronet.net>)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Classified Ads:
  Subject: IRC Roleplaying
  Subject: Campaign Name: FireFly! Play Testing
  Subject: Column Submissions

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Column Name: IRPS Monthly Status Report
Author: Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Hey everyone, as usual the club is still here and growing.  Our 
approximate size is about 1300 people, and we seem to be stablizing out for
the number of members in the club.
	Also, IRPS has another Associate gaming club,  the Kindred Network,
which is an Officially Sanctioned White Wolf club located in England, and we
have a web page linked to them.  See the associate gaming section of the
IRPS Homepage if you're interested.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Column Name: IRPS Internet Programming Project
Author: Jared Nielsen <grafx1@airmail.net>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Have you considered on-line front-end games?  Origin and 3DO have
theirs but the worlds are proprietary, closed except to certain "qualifying"
members.  Palladium and TSR are closing their doors somewhat to free on-line
creation as well.  I have been developing a Win/95/NT based gaming front end
that passes Winsock packets to register information/updates.  A virtual world
with the downloaded front end software has always been a dream of mine.  The
ultimate extension of role-playing.
	I am more than willing to donate asignificant amount of time helping
out with a project like this.If anyone is interested in helping Jared
with this project please contact him at <grafx1@airmail.net>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Column Name: Fires of the Heart
Auhtor: Thom Allen <allent@mail.wsu.edu>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The tug was almost imperceptible.  Almost.
	Pelonius of Tyr spun quickly around and made a wild grab for the
grubby little hand that had reached out from a nearby shadow to lift his belt
pouch.
	Even before he had the tiny arm in his grasp he knew it must have
belonged to an amateur.  The thieves and pickpockets in Shadow Square were
masters of the art and Pelonius rarely made it through this rowdy corner of
the city still owning all his possessions.
	On this night, though, he would not only escape with a full purse, but
catch athief, as well.  Pelonius yanked on the small limb with the intention
of pulling the attached halfling into the brilliant glow of Guthay's celestial
lunar light.  With shock he looked down, not into the feral face of a
halfling, but into the eyes of a dirty human child.
	A gruff voice reminded Pelonius of his surroundings, 
	"Ah, let the urchin go.  You can't reform every soul in this blasted
city."  Looking around Pelonius exchanged a glance with his burly companion,
Maedoc, an overly-muscular barbarian born and raised in the unforgiving
desert.  He and six others, stood in the cramped alleyway impatiently waiting
to finish their trek back to their home, a two-story building located in the
heart of Tyr's poverty stricken district known as `the Warrens'.  In the days
after King Kalak's death, walking these lawless streets during the day was bad
enough.  At night, leaving the home was tantamount to walking a gauntlet.
Pelonius and his friends knew that safety was found only in numbers and the
occasional trips out- doors mandated a group this large.  Suddenly, the child
twisted sharply in Pelonius's grasp.  Aided by the greasy filth covering her
body, the girl broke free and fled back into the shadows.  His first thought
was to follow, but a restraining hand on his shoulder made him pause.
	"Let her go," Maedoc said once more in a calm voice.  "You have done
much to help these people, my friend, but we must rest.  Tomorrow we leave for
battle."  Maedoc was right.  The next day, all eight of them were leaving with
the rest of the Tyrian army because the neighboring state of Urik had declared
war.  The Urikite king, Hamanu had pledged to wrest control of Tyr's iron
mines from the struggling, chaotic city.    Fortunately, a motley collection
of arena gladiators, king's templars and newly emancipated freemen had vowed
to stop him.  Pelonius and his friends would be among them.
	The army would need his help, after all.  He possessed invaluable
skills of healing and medicine that would be of great use during the fight to
come. His form of priestly magic had another purpose.  For unlike the urban
templars, he commanded the magic of fire -  the spiritual magic of war.  Long
ago Pelonius had taken the oath dedicating his life to the purpose of the
cleansing elements of flame.  His master, Barchan Dune, had been with him then
as he had risked his life in the ritual that bonded him to that particular
element.  As he stood all night within a raging bonfire, protected from the
heat by Barchan's own powerful magic, Pelonius vowed to do all that the flames
had asked of him.
	He had survived that ritual out in the desert so may years ago.
However, the Lords of Fire had left their mark upon him.  His once dirty-brown
hair and dull green eyes now flared brightly red.  And he saw things a bit
different now, as well_things others did not perceive.  To Pelonius, this
bleak and dead world that he lived in was actually growing.  Centuries of
abuse by the dreaded defilers and the power-hungry sorcerer-kings had brought
Athas to the brink of utter disrepair.  However, his order of priests, and
numerous other factions had long fought against the destruction.  Now, with
Kalak dead, Pelonius actually felt the spark of life within the dusty sand
underfoot re-kindle and begin to grow.
	Pelonius remembered his vows, then, and everything he had done to aid
in the revival.  That night in the bonfire he had promised something to a
voice within the flames.  He would toil the rest of his life to return the
splendor of the great cities to the desolate world of Athas; to replenish the
forests that once grew over all that is now dust and hot desert sand.  In
return, the elemental spirits of fire would grant him power.  The magic that
flowed in him now was magic for healing, growth and even destruction if needs
be.
	"Come on it's getting late,"  Maedoc's voice brought him again from
his revere.  It was near midnight before the small band of Tyr's defenders
made it back to their home and settled in for one last cool night behind their
beloved city's walls.
                             <<< >>>

	The following morning, Pelonius and his band of patriots led a grim 
march through the city streets.  The morning's chill had quickly fled and the 
heat of the dark sun crept in.  A greenish-orange haze crowned the sky, just 
like every other day on Athas, and hot dust clung to freshly aired clothes and 
filtered into lungs, producing muted coughs from those in the processional.
Words were not spoken and were not needed.  A shared thought consumed the 
small party.  This could be the last morning they would ever spend in the 
hellish paradise city-state of Tyr.  All eight had consigned their very lives 
in the defense of their city.
	A woman's scream shattered the morning silence.  Instinctively, 
everyone in the group turned to face the direction of the commotion, but 
Pelonius was the first to act.  The others watched as he sprinted down a 
deserted street somewhere in the middle of the maze-like Warrens.  Pelonius 
had rounded the first corner before Maedoc finally spoke,
	"We best follow.  Who knows what trouble he'll get himself into."
	Griggs, a wily half-elf in the back of the group murmured to himself,
"When are we gonna start charging money for services rendered?"  Maedoc had 
only gone halfway down the street in the direction Pelonius had gone when he 
saw the smoke.  A black, billowing cloud of fine ash rose into the sky above 
the rooftops in front of him.  The shouts for help and more screams could now 
be heard just ahead.  Rounding the block, Maedoc and the others saw a squat 
two-story adobe style building set among a number of other dirty little 
hovels.  A crowd of nearly twenty people had gathered outside to watch the 
spectacle, and some were actually cheering.  A frantic, disheveled woman of 
indeterminable age stood near the doorway screaming and pointing towards the 
upstairs window where flames were just beginning to lick the outside sill.  
The first floor doorway near the woman was completely engulfed in flames and 
the little group could just make out a stout red-haired man as he dove into 
the doorway, heedless of the deadly flames.
                                 <<<>>>

	Pelonius had to hurry.  One of the benefits of his craft left him 
immune to the effects of flame, but at best, this power only shielded him for 
a matter of minutes.  As he rushed through the burning doorway, his mind was 
filled with the image of that woman outside screaming for help.  Her baby was 
trapped upstairs.
	Pelonius's first impression of the dirty little room was that nothing 
this poor family owned would be saved.  The flames had spread over the entire 
first floor.  However this blaze had started, the fire had indeed grown at a 
phenomenal rate.  As Pelonius studied the room looking for access to the floor 
above, he became aware of the eyes.  Perhaps you would have to be actually 
looking for them to see them, or perhaps a normal person would not be able to 
see them at all.  A small flight of stairs at the back of the room was his 
obvious destination, but he found that he could not move,  the sight of the 
eyes held him transfixed.
	Dozens of them were flitting amongst the flames as if performing some 
gleeful yet horrible dance.  As he stood and stared, the voices came to him.
Hardly discernible at first, but then gaining in clarity.
	"Ooo, ank. ooo tank,"  they seemed to be saying.  Over and over again 
the voices repeated, popping and crackling in his head.  At first the voices 
held a cadence, keeping rhythm with the dance of the many eyes, then they 
began to blend together and become a turbulent chorus,  "Tank ooo, tank ooo, 
Pelonius!  Unger, eed, unger," they babbled.
	Pelonius made a break for the stairs.  

      "Feed hunger, feed hunger.  Thank you, Pelonius!"  the tiny elementals 
chanted in his head.  Ignoring their words, Pelonius reached the second floor.
The entire room was nearly ablaze.  A small bed near the window was enveloped 
in flames as more of the eyes spun wildly under and around it.  "Thank you!" 
Burning debris littered the floor and Pelonius had to duck because a thick 
layer of black smoke covered the ceiling.  "Feed!" Finally, Pelonius spotted 
a small form huddled in a corner opposite the burning bed.  Waves of heat and 
flames nearly hid the child from his view.  Although he was still protected 
from the flames for several more minutes, he knew that his shielding magic 
would do nothing to save him or the child if the structure it- self collapsed. 
He reached the child a second later.  Her form offered no resistance as he 
attempted to wrap her body within his robes, but all that r emained of them 
were charred shreds of cloth hanging from his broad shoulders.
	Covering the girl with his arms, he raced back across the room to the 
window and certain safety.
	Outside, Pelonius could see that the crowd had grown to twice its size 
since he had entered the building.  A few of the king's templars had arrived 
outside and were instructing three half-giant guards who were busy scooping 
enormous armfuls of dirt and sand from the street and dumping them into 
hardened leather buckets.  The templars were ordering the buckets dumped on 
the flames just as Pelonius began lowering the child out the window and into 
Maedoc's waiting arms below.
	Just then, a flash of recognition struck Pelonius with a jolt.  The tiny 
arms he now held were the same he held last night in Shadow Square.  Beyond 
the grime and filth that covered her face, Pelonius remembered the face he had 
seen, as well.  But those eyes, the same eyes he locked gazes with last night, 
were now closed, her form limp and lifeless.  Her head lolled to one side and 
he could see the charred ruin that had once held cherubic beauty.  He could 
sense it now.  Her life spirit had indeed fled, she had probably died from the 
smoke long before the fire had reached her.  Pelonius let her arms go and 
stepped back into the conflagration, his screams of denial bleeding with the 
screams of a grieving mother below and the roaring flames around him.
	When Pelonius finally stepped from the burning building, the templars 
had moved the crowd back down the street, clearing the way for the half-giants 
to douse the fire.  As he reached the crowd, Griggs handed him a spare cloak 
to cover his nakedness.  Normally Pelonius felt a sense of complete inner 
cleanliness after walking with his element.  Now he felt only corruption, 
betrayed.  The throng of people witnessing the event had grown quiet.  The 
sobbing of the woman drowned the street in a morose somberness that none could 
resist.
	Quite smoothly a man stepped from the crowd and bent towards the woman.
He wore a light blue robe and his white wispy hair was pulled back tight 
behind his head and held there by a leather thong.  On his feet he wore a pair 
of thick oled sandals as if he were accustomed to walking through mud.  The 
man scooped up the body of the girl, his whispered words heard only by the 
bereaved mother.
 	"Come my brother, we have work to do," the man said to Pelonius.  With 
a start, Pelonius stared at the stranger and then followed him as he walked 
back towards the burning house with the child cradled in his arms.
	The man carried his burden into the narrow alley between the burning 
house and the building next door to it, dodging falling embers and showers of 
dirt and sand.  When Pelonius caught up, the man had reached the rear of the 
house.  A small cluttered yard was all that was back there.  With a sudden 
kick, the man forced open the crude wood and bone door leading back into the 
still burning house.  "No need to build a pyre, my brother," he said and laid 
the child's body in the doorway.  "But I'll need your help here." The man 
gestured towards the flames billowing from the open doorway and Pelonius did 
as he was bidden, easing the body back into the blistering heat.
	Without thought, Pelonius began his rites of the dead.  His words seemed 
hollow and meaningless, as he spoke to the fire lapping at the empty vessel at 
his feet.  "Lords of the Eternal Embers, take this now so that one day another 
may return to this world, stronger than before."  He ended his heartless chant 
only to hear another voice behind him echoing his words with all of his lost 
conviction and more.  A warm gust of wind rippled at Pelonius's new cloak, 
fanning the flames like a smithy's bellows.  As he stepped back out of the 
doorway, he turned to face the mysterious stranger. The older man spoke first, 
"The conflict in you rages like these wind-fed flames.  Your heart is a noble 
one, I can sense that."
	"I feel as if my whole life had been dedicated to the spirits of fire," 
Pelonius rasped, "yet today my eyes have been opened to the monstrosities I 
have served."
	The stranger smiled, "Your consciousness and your heart work together to 
tell you what is right and wrong, my brother," he said, "And you choose to 
follow the path of the just.  Yet the spirits that you serve, the very spirits 
that give you the power to weather the inferno, to heal the sick, this power 
knows no laws nor morals, only hunger."  The man spread his arms wide.  "They 
are tools, my friend.  Only tools.  You may freely use them as they would you. 
But the craftsman decides if his work will be of fine quality or not, not the 
tools."
	At this, Pelonius turned back towards the doorway.  The rippling breeze 
had continued to blow while the two had talked and now the body that had once 
housed the spirit of a beautiful young girl was in ashes.  Only blackened 
bones remained, and by the heat of the blaze in front of him, Pelonius guessed 
that even those would be ashes soon.  After a moment of pondering what the 
stranger had said, Pelonius amended,
	"But the skill of the craftsman and his tools determines his worth, 
isn't that right?"  When the man did not reply, Pelonius turned to face him 
only to find the man had vanished and not a trace of his presence or his 
departure remained.
	Pelonius stood for a moment longer, lost in his troubled thoughts, then 
turned and slowly walked back to rejoin his friends back on the street.
                         		<<<>>>

	The crowd had dispersed before Pelonius reappeared from around the side 
of the still smoldering house.  The grieving mother was nowhere to be found.
The half-giants continued to heap dirt and sand onto the ruins, the aftermath 
of their labors had produced huge craters in the street.  No words were spoken 
as the group of eight once more took up their now much more solemn march 
towards the army's mustering site outside the gates of Tyr.
	To six members of the group, another life had been culled away by the 
harsh world they all lived in.  To Pelonius, an innocent spark that once was 
a beautiful life was snuffed out long before it had the chance to grow into a 
flame, and he couldn't help but think that somehow he was responsible.  But to 
Maedoc, a friend was in pain, struggling with some inner turmoil that he could 
not help to fight.  The two had been through many scrapes in the past and by 
the might of his fists, Maedoc had always seen the other through it safely.  
Today his friend suffered and there was nothing he could do about it, let 
alone fully understand his pain.
	Maedoc stood for a minute more in the hot and dusty street while the 
others plodded away, and he surveyed the ruined structure before him.  As his 
gaze wandered to the smoke smudged sky, he thought he saw the figure of a man 
floating high up between Tyr's golden spires where only the Kestrels belonged.
It was just a flash of blue garb and wispy white hair that had caught his 
attention, but a second look revealed nothing.  His eyes had deceived him.
Thinking the illusion must have been a result of his liberal celebrating the 
night before, Maedoc shook his head and mumbled to himself, "I've got to 
remind myself to take it easy on that Mericlean wine."  With a heavy heart, 
Maedoc turned and jogged back down the street to catch up with the others.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Column Name: Rambling Thoughts
Author: Kosala Ubayasekara <kosala@dataphone.se> 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Coming Of the AD&D Core Rules CD-ROM

	There I was browsing through my favorite fantasy shop the other day, 
when I chanced upon this month's DRAGON magazine. Much to my amazement I 
discovered it came with a demo CD-ROM of the much longed for AD&D Core Rules 
CD-ROM from TSR.  So I thought I would take a look, and having been 
sufficiently impressed I decided to share the cool news with the lot of you.
	The demo CD-ROM itself doesn't do much but it does give you a clean idea 
of what the final product will be like.  Note that the final product might 
turn out somewhat differently than I describe it, since they are still 
refining and perfecting the program. But here is how I found the program. 
Some of the details of this description came from the article about the CD-ROM 
in DRAGON issue #231.  Here are all the features that will be included:
	* A very detailed character generator.  Every single feature of the 
character generation method is incorporated.  You create the whole character 
by clicking the appropriate selection with the mouse and everything from 
rolling the statistics to choosing spells and proficiencies is there.  You can 
even click on an option for more information about that option during the 
selection phase (Non-weapon proficiencies etc.)  You can print the character 
sheet in full color if you have access to color printers and even choose a 
background and/or border from the ones made available.
	* If you already have a character then you can type in the statistics 
yourself without going through the character generation phase, you can update 
existing characters, view character sheets without printing them etc.
	* There is Books on-line feature.  The Players Handbook, the Dungeon 
Masters Guide, Monstrous Manual, Arms and Equipment and Tome of Magic are all 
completely online on the CD-ROM (the demo only contains limited excerpts from 
these books). The article in DRAGON says that all the books will be completely 
cross-referenced and hyperlinked in the final product. You can even bring the 
text into a word processor and reorganize and rewrite parts of the rules books 
to reflect house rules etc. if you wish!  And then save the database with 
your changes!  There is also a key topic search facility.
	* A series of invaluable DMing aids.  These include the Handout 
Generator, the Treasure Generator, Monster Generator, Encounter generator, 
NPC generator, Map Maker, Dice rolls and Table rolls.  The handout generator, 
as described in the article in DRAGON, is a collection of pre-formatted 
templates for creating handouts.  They can be printed with a variety of 
medieval looking borders and styles.
	* The treasure generator allocates and identifies treasure.  The 
treasure database is readily customized and treasure not suitable to a 
campaign can be temporarily removed and will then be ignored by the random 
generation process.
	* The monster generator is used to create your own monsters by answering 
a series of questions.
	* The NPC generator is the fast way to generate NPC's.  It will let you 
develop them yourself or plonk them out totally automatically if you so wish. 
It is even supposed to be able to name them if you cannot be bothered to pick 
a name yourself.
	* The encounter generator sounds snazzy!  It is supposed to be able to 
provide a user with lists of possible foes and monster encounters after the 
user has entered in the type of terrain and level of play the encounter should 
take place on.  The program can even automatically generate monsters randomly, 
complete with hit points, experience etc. for pre-assembled encounters.
	* The Map Maker is a truly wonderful utility that makes drawing and 
maintaining maps trivial.  You can draw both exterior and interior maps, 
complete with icons in full color, descriptions, encounters, monsters etc.  
Encounters generated in the Encounter generator can be keyed to the maps.  
Just clicking on the appropriate encounter on the map shows you a description 
of the encounter. The same goes for monsters and treasure!  It is also easily 
updated and after drawing an interior map such as a dungeon you are supposed 
to be able to render it into a 3D, first person perspective view, which you 
can walk in!
	* An on-line help for all the features is provided in the shape of 
wizard that you can click on, for more help on a particular screen.
	This product is being developed for TSR by Evermore Entertainment and the 
final version will be released first at GEN CON and will be available 
world-wide by September, according to DRAGON magazine.
	The information for this article was taken from DRAGON issue #231 and my 
own examination of the demo CD-ROM.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Column Name: DM's Advice
Author: Earl Harrison <harrison@comsys.net>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
	I want to thank everyone for the responses I have received regarding my 
utilities package.  As of this writing I have not received any good or bad 
remarks back from you.  How about a few?  Criticize please, it will only help 
my package get better.  I have started writing some of the additions I talked 
about, so if you want them wait a bit longer and then e-mail me for the 
current additions.  The GNSB proved to be a bit bigger than my program can 
handle so unless you out there can come up with a solution to the problem I 
am afraid the GNSB will be out of the picture.  For those of you wanting the 
passwords you should have them by the time you read this.

To be a great DM you must have a few essential tools.

	1. Have all books and rules your group uses
	2. Knowledgeable of rules
	3. Have improvisation skills
	4. Create NPC's
	5. Role-Playing Skills
	6. Get All players involved
	7. Handle Power Mongers
	8. Character/Player Knowledge
	9. Imagination

	First and foremost you must have access to all of the books and rules 
that your group use.  If you are going to be the main DM for your group I 
recommend that you either hold the books at your house or that you go and buy 
the books that you need.  About five sets of dice are needed also.  A few 
extra twenties and sixes are always helpful.
	Next you have to be very knowledgeable of all of the rules and to know 
where to look them up if ever challenged by your players.  Have the books 
handy at the table when you play.  Don't have them memorized word for word, 
just be able to tell the players what the rule is and where it is if you need 
to.  Be very knowledgeable of the spells and magic items that your players 
use. It is not to much to ask to have your players jot down all of their items 
and spells a day or two before the game.  This way you have a chance to go 
through the books and really get to know their items and spells.  Just to 
protect you and your game.  It is also not to much for you to throw out an 
item or two.  It is rare that a mage have two staves of power.  With spells on 
the other hand, little can be done unless you want to destroy pages of their 
books or make them lose their memories when they start to cast the spell.
	Next, be able to improvise as needed.  Not all players will go down the 
straight and narrow path you have created for them.  Be able to make something 
up on the fly and lead them back to your adventure.  If you make the players 
think this is part of the game and not just something that you are making up 
they will think that you are a better DM than you actually are.  Be ready for 
these times, they will happen.  A possible impromptu might be the characters 
going out the east gate instead of the north gate.  There they head south a 
bit when you had them going straight north.  Put a jungle out there or a very 
nasty creature that you know they can't defeat.  They might take the hint.  
The jungle idea works well if you can get them lost.  When lost they don't 
know where you are leading them.  Lead them back north again and the jungle 
will clear out a bit. 
	NPC's are another thing some DM's don't do much with.  I am not going to 
tell you to create every NPC in the city.  Just create enough of them to make 
the players feel like they are in a real city.  Keep the adventure going here 
to. Pickpockets, caravans, carnivals and street urchins always come in handy 
when just cruising through the city.  Have royalty come by them and watch 
their reaction.  The party could create a very powerful enemy or a very 
powerful friend.  An adventure is just waiting to happen with this one.  Don't 
always let them get to the bar and start a fight and then escape from the very 
powerful NPC chasing them.  Lead them into more interesting NPC's.  Perhaps 
the gypsies have an adventure for them.  They must travel with them and they 
get to meet some of the gypsies and make a few good allies.  Even let them 
take a few of the NPC's as characters.  Then you have control over what the 
character has and doesn't have.  When they encounter a new NPC have fun with 
the person. Give him an attitude!  Role play the person.  Don't just be 
mundane about him.  Just three descriptions about a person and the player can 
instantly visualize the person.  Give them a race, a few things they are 
wearing and body structure.  The players can get into something like this.  I 
have had NPC's that the players just love to come back and visit. 
	Role-Playing is another key variable in becoming a good DM.  You must be 
able to act out what is happening with the monsters and NPC's alike.  Don't be 
shy about acting like the monster.  I am not saying to actually get out of 
your chair and dance around the room.  Noises, facial and arm movements are 
usually enough to get most players into it.  Make sure that if you are 
role-playing your part that they are doing the same with their characters.
Don't just let them sit there and be boring.  After all this is a role-playing 
game!  I have a few players that really get anxious when they are in the heat 
of battle or when they are really into a NPC.  Encourage the new players in 
the group to role play.  There is nothing to be shy about if everyone is doing 
it and it starts with the dungeon master.  They are the one that is 
controlling the game. He is the one telling the story.  However the DM is 
reacting to the game is the way the players will react to the game. 
	Get the boring players involved.  You know the one guy over there 
doodling on the back of his character sheet.  If he is not paying any 
attention to you then that means he is not having any fun.  Have him be 
attacked or accosted by one of your drunk NPC's.  Have a little kid come 
running up to him and grab something from him.  Now watch him get into the 
game.  The way you handle this is not to make it into a very big deal in the 
whole scheme of the game.  It is only to get that player involved in the game 
more.  The main objective of the game is for everyone to have fun and not just 
a few players.  The ones that are constantly reacting to the DM are the 
players that the DM must do something with.  If you find one player constantly 
in your face have him fall into a trap or get captured by the city watch.  Now 
that he is away from the party there is no need for him to react with the 
others.  Remind him of this also. 
	Handling power hungry players is a very key item to becoming a good DM.
Most players at one time or another will get attached to a favorite character 
and want him to achieve "God-hood."  What I mean is they want this character 
to be able to walk through the monster manuals and kill everything without 
getting a scratch.  The job of the DM is to prevent this from happening.  Do 
not give out to many magic items and if you do make sure they have a purpose 
in being where they are.  Make your players use their gold for obscure things 
like bribes, food and rentals.  What I mean by rentals is to make them sleep 
at the inn, buy a wagon, horse or pack animals.  If they insist on getting 
cannon fodder NPC's make them pay high prices for them, especially if they 
have been to this town before with none of the henchmen with them that they 
had bought here previously.  If they want to buy magic items be wary of this.  
This is only the power coming at them.  They want the items without 
adventuring for it.  Make the prices be double or greater for really good 
items.  If you allow them to buy try to have a plan to either destroy or take 
the item from them.  After all they did not earn the item they merely bought 
it.  Easy come easy go.
	One of the hardest things for the DM to control is the character/player 
knowledge thing.  Yeah, your players all know the description of the mighty 
orc or they know that the flapping of wings from behind them is that dragon 
come chasing them again.  One thing that I like to do is an old trick that TSR 
taught me long ago.  Change the descriptions around a bit.  Why can't you 
have a mutant orc that is green and only has one arm in the middle of his 
chest?  Will your players be afraid of this abomination?  Hopefully they will, 
and your lowly orc can get the first attack and maybe do some damage before 
they realize that this creature is no threat.  Maybe they may even run from 
it. Boy won't he have a story to tell when he gets back to camp!  Why can't 
that dragon have a silence spell cast or like the orc, be mutated or have a 
polymorph spell cast.  There are endless things you can do to change what the 
players know.  It is usually not enough to remind the players that their 
characters have never seen an orc.  It is more fun to play this out as if the 
characters have not ever seen an orc.  Another one for this is an old NPC.  
The new characters may never have seen him but the players may have run across 
him hundreds of times with other characters.  It is your job to make the NPC 
not know the characters and make him behave as such.  Another thing to do is 
not let the players let their characters know each other.  A few can but not 
all of them.  The players might tell the NPC that they know so and so and ask 
him if they ever heard of him.  To get the players going is to have the NPC 
tell the characters something that he does not like about the other character.  
They will usually leave this guy alone.  Just don't let them pick on the NPC, 
have him alert the city watch of troublesome characters.
	The last thing I want to talk about is your imagination.  Yeah you might 
be able to visualize the happenings going on but can the players.  They can 
not see into your mind.  You have to describe what is going on around them.
What they see, smell, hear and feel.  You cannot give them emotion but you can 
set the stage for them to feel the emotion, may it be love, hate or somewhere 
in between.  You have to describe the surroundings and the people.  Just three 
descriptions about a person and the player can instantly visualize the person.  
Give them a race, a few things they are wearing and body structure.  For 
example the chubby old human threw back his cloak to reveal his overgrown 
belly.  Most of you instantly saw this guy and probably a few chuckled at what 
you saw.  I know the good DM's out there are still going on with a short story 
of the guy.  After a brief description give the person something to do.  The 
surroundings sometimes are a bit tricky.  "The sloping meadow led into a thick 
jungle".  Sometimes this just does not get it. You need to add some wind and 
a few smells and sounds to this.  I will let you finish this one off for 
yourself.  You get the idea though.  Imagination is something we all have and 
most rarely use it.  As a DM you must use it all of the time.  Don't let the 
players leave your story behind because of a lack of imagination.  You may 
have the best game ever going and without the descriptions of the surroundings 
and the people they are interacting with they will be lost.
	I hope I have not rambled on to much with this but I enjoy being the DM 
for our group and this is just some of the things that I do as a DM to keep my 
players coming back.  I hope you agree with just a few of the things I have 
said and maybe some of you out there were thinking of becoming a DM and with 
my words may have gotten the help that you needed.
	I do want to thank Kosala Ubayasekara for inspiring me to write this 
article.  He opened my eyes and made me want to add a little something to what 
he had written last month.  This article is dedicated to him and his wonderful 
writing.  I just hope I have done just as good of a job as he had done last 
time.

				Until Next Time
				Earl Harrison
				harrison@comsys.net

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Column Name: Battle Lust
Author: Aaron Harrier <dharr@penn.com>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

		BATTLE LUST             
                          
               Atop the hill he sat and stared
               wondering where he might have erred.
               When there came a sound from far below
               what terrors in him it did bestow!!

               He had heard it only once before
               from deep below a dungeon floor.
               The monster that made that horrid note sing
               from the depth of the abyss came it's horrible sting!!
     
               But fear is now over in this noble man
               he will defeat this thing-he knows that he can!
               His heart beats strong as he sees the beast
               His battle lust is now complete.

               Sword in hand helmet in place 
               he stands and sets a hurried pace.
               The monster comes on just as fast
               he has defeated many in his past!!!
 
               He never felt the final blow
               just fell backwards into the snow
               The battle lust had finally died,
               he accepted fate with even strides
       
               The monster just smiled and few away,
               he leaves NO foe for another day!
               But he would never forget that noblest man
               for he was the only one who hadn't ran...

                                  Aaron Harrier 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Column Name: Top Ten  - Famous Last Words
Author: John "B.J." Tomkins <gr8dm@acronet.net> 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Top Ten Famous Last Words

10. "Hey guys! Look at the pretty flower." 
9. "Now where did that thief go?"
8. "DM's never use Piercers!"
7. "I turn the Lich!"
6. "They're only Orcs."
5. "I pickpocketed the Vampire."
4. "Did I make my saving throw?"
3. "I, Samford the Mage, will charge into battle." 
2. "I cast Fireball on the Ogres next to me."

And the number one Famous Last Word;
1. Ya know, as a DM you suck!"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Classified Ads
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Subject: IRC Roleplaying
Author: John "B.J." Tomkins <gr8dm@acronet.net>
	I am looking for players in an IRC game based in the lands of Greyhawk.  
Be a part of the group that makes headlines in the most famous newspaper across 
the Flanaess (okay, the only newspaper).
	Stop by #BJSROOM at either us.undernet.org or nemesis.acronet.net on 
Wednesdays, 9 p.m. EST and say Hi and read about the action going on.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Subject: Campaign Name: FireFly! Play Testing 
Author: <dpoole@bud.peinet.pe.ca >
	Web Page Location: http://www.peinet.pe.ca./raven/firefly/ 
Description: FireFly! is the first of several PBM/PBEM strategy games, to be 
published by Visceral Games.  FireFly! is a ship to ship "arena combat" game.
In FireFly!, you are the Captain of a spacecraft you design yourself, pitted 
against other Captains.  There is one computer controlled opponent, known as 
the Rabbit Ship.  The Rabbit Ship is your moving target for the duration of 
each Round.  It may prove to be the least of your worries.  For those of you 
who require a set up, you're in the far future where elite pilots are at the 
top of the food chain.  They get the luxury goods, the best looking dates, 
and the best pay.  However, they are constantly bickering over which of them 
is "the best" pilot, so they compete in FireFly!

Their Commanders consider it to be good training.

The FireFly Home Page has a complete set of rules on-line, and sample play aids.  Interested Play Testers should check out the appropriate link at the page for further information on how to become a playtester.
Cheers.
                    Dale Poole, Raven Information Systems
                           dpoole@bud.peinet.pe.ca
                         * www.peinet.pe.ca/raven/ * 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Subject: Column Submissions
Author: John "B.J" Tomkins <gr8dm@acronet.net>
	I am taking submissions of campaign journals, notes and so forth that 
are entertaining, funny or enlightening.  They should be in context of the 
genre of game being played and from a one person point of view, as if the 
person were relaying the story around a camp fire! Whether the camp fire is 
made with wood or nuclear waste...
	Please direct these to John "BJ" Tomkins at <gr8dm@acronet.net>.  A few 
will be chosen to be published each month in a new IRPS newsletter column 
called "Fireside Talk".
