The RPG Times
Jan. 1, 1997.
Vol. 2 Issue #1

Table of Contents:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IRPS President's Note       Michael Popovich (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu)
Editor's Note               Karen Mizeri  (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
IRPS Monthly Update         Bryan E. Manahan (sidereal@epix.net) 
Letters to the Editor
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Columns:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rambling Thoughts           Kosala Ubayasekara (d96-kub@nada.kth.se)
The Top Ten                 John "BJ" Tomkins  (gr8dm@acronet.net)
MaBarry's Amusings          Meera Barry (mabarry@abwam.com)
Shocalogical Observations   Shocalog of Vulcan (rbarret@neo.lrun.com)
Dragon Tales                H.W. Brennan (bcdefghi@gte.net)
The Wyrm's Vault            Mark Eismendi (umeismen@cc.umanitoba.ca)
Real Fantasy                Bill Truglio (Llium02@sprynet.com)
Incoming Thoughts           Juan Camilo Rozo (jcr@geocities.com)
Issues in RPG's             Jason J. Neigh (dude@isrv.net)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role Playing Aids
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Necklace of Raindrops       Jon Reed (jonreed@bigfoot.com)
Black Lizardmen             Irving Galvez (egalvez@coreo.tamnet.com.mx)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fiction:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Assassins               Tim Elford (shade@tusc.com.au) AND
                            Goran Zidar (goran@elf.aust.com)
Fireside Chat               John "BJ" Tomkins  (gr8dm@acronet.net)
                            Submitted by:  Lisa Mizeri (lmizeri@westlink.net)
A Long Time Ago, In A       Jim Millington (raider@interlog.com)
Galaxy Far Away...
Dragon's Fire               Paul Johnson (Archm10361.aol.com)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Members Announcements:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject:PBEM Director
Subject: Associate Club and RPGA Director
Subject: Wanted: Authors
Subject: Paranoia meets Call of Cthulhu
Subject: Seeking Roleplayers
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The RPG Times Staff List
Guidelines for Submissions
Legal Disclaimer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
President's Note
Michael Popovich (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hello Everyone, once again, I'm here to inform you of how the club is
progressing.  This newsletter marks the one year anniversary of IRPS.  A
year ago the club started out with approximately 10 or so members, but since
then, our club has grown to approximately 1500 people.

To mark this date, IRPS has updated it's web page.  We went ahead and killed
off the frames and updated certain sections which needed to be updated.
Furthermore, we're going to start updating the page on a monthy basis.  About
ten new RPG links will be added in each month.  So, whenever you have any free
time, stop by and take a look at the new IRPS page.

Michael

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Editor's Note
Karen Mizeri (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Greetings and Holiday Wishes to you all.  We have had a phenomenal response
to the magazine, and I am pleased to present many new writers this month.  As
ever, the staff of the RPG Times gets together regularly on the
nemesis.acronet.net server, on Monday nights at 9:30 EST.  The channel is #IRPS
and I encourage anyone who would is interested in the magazine, or just wants
to chat to drop by.  I also want to remind everyone that classifieds in the
magazine are free, there has been many questions on that lately.  Submissions
can be mailed to me at (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)  -they must meet the submission
guidelines.  I will no longer be accepting articles that do not, they will be
promptly returned until they do meet the guidelines.  If you need a copy of
these you can E-mail me or see the section at the end of the newsletter.

Best Wishes for the New Year,

Karen Mizeri

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IRPS Update
Bryan Manahan (sidereal@epix.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
New service for IRPS members :

        The IRPS is creating an FTP archive for RPG related materials that our
members can access.  For now, we will archive large RPG related documents,
binary executables of original RPG related programs, and graphics files which
are relevant to either of the above ( maps, for example, if you write an
adventure ). All submissions must meet our guidelines before we consider your
material for our site.  Materials found to be unsuitable, or that do not meet
the guidelines will be rejected.

Guidelines governing the FTP Archive site for IRPS members:

1. Acceptable material:

*RPG related documents which are too large to be considered as an article.

*Original RPG related executable programs which are of some use to the role-
playing community.

*Graphics files only if they are relevant to an associated document or
executable program.

2. Copyright :

*Items sent to us must not infringe upon any existing copyright.  If you are in
doubt about what you want to send to us, DON'T send it.

*Items sent to us must have a standard disclaimer stating use of any potentially
copyrighted material.

*By sending us your documents and programs, you agree to accept full and total
responsibility for any copyright violations which your document or program may
incur.  You also agree to release the IRPS and its affiliates from any and all
responsibility for difficulties and damages caused by your materials.

3. We will not place submissions on our site if they contain the following
material:
    pornographic descriptions, references, or pictures
    vulgar language
    plagiarized material

4. The way its got to be :
    Documents must be in one of the following formats; any that are not, will
be refused.  Document files may be *.zip compressed with pkzip or WinZip before
sending.
        == ASCII text (DOS Text or Windows 95 Notepad)
        == Windows Write or Windows 95 WordPad
        == Microsoft Word for Windows 2.0, 6.0
        == WordPerfect 4.2, 5.0, 5.1, 6.0, 6.1

    Tables and charts submitted in Microsoft Excel v. 5.0 or before are acceptable.
    Programs should include the *.exe and all requisite affiliated files, as well
as a *txt file that explains what the program does, what it is used for, and how
to use it, in a single *.zip file.
    Graphics must be either *.jpg, *.gif, *.pcx, or *.bmp and included with the
    files which they are associated.

 5. General :
   *All submissions are expected to be in English, and have good spelling and
    grammar.  It doesn't have to be perfect, but at least readable and
    understandable.
   *If the submissions editor cannot open your file to read it, it will not be
    used.
   *If you do not use PC Eudora as your mailer, attached files should be encoded
    with MIME or BinHex.  If it is encoded in any other format, it will decode
    as garbage, and will be relegated as such.
   *File extensions ; We ask that you try to make our job a little easier by
    using standard file extensions for your documents.  The standard extensions
    are as follows :
       ASCII  -  *.txt
       Windows Write / WordPad  -  *.wri
       Microsoft Word  -  *.doc
       WordPerfect  -  *.wpd
       Microsoft Excel  -  *.xls

Submissions should be sent to the Archives Submission Editor Bryan Manahan at
(sidereal@epix.net)

   Please include "Archive Submission" somewhere in the subject of the message,
as the members of our editorial staff receive many messages a day, and this
will help ensure that your submission is properly processed.


Disclaimer :
   The material available through this FTP archive is offered as-is, without
warranty.  The IRPS staff and its affiliates do not guarantee the suitability
of any materials contained on the site for use with any particular application
or system configuration.  By downloading information contained at this site, you
agree to accept the files at your own risk.  You also agree that the IRPS staff
and its affiliates are not responsible for any damages, corruption of files, or
other calamity which may occur as a result of your use of  files downloaded from
this archive site.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Letters to the Editor
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Here's a little-known fact about the recent release of STAR TREK: 
FIRST CONTACT I just noticed -- to my disgust.
     Neal McDonaugh, the actor who plays "Lt. Hawk", was also the actor who 
played the role of "Neal Henderson" in the 4-hour mini-series CRUEL DOUBT 
aired by the NBC network in May 1992.  This was a dramatization of the 
real-life murder of Lieth von Stein of Washington, North Carolina by his 
stepson Chris Pritchard, who had enlisted two friends (Neal Henderson and 
James "Moog" Upchurch) to do the actual deed (in 1988).  It was based on 
the book of the same title by Joe McGinniss.
     This mini-series was peppered with scurrilous insinuations that the
three young men were inspired to commit the murder by the Dungeons &
Dragons role-playing game.  In a police squadroom scene, police
"investigate" the first-edition ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS PLAYERS
HANDBOOK, uttering sinister quotes from it -- which of course do not exist
in the real book.  There is also a camera close-up of a piece of artwork
visibly pasted into the pages of the real book, portraying an orc in
banded mail with dagger and backpack, to try to tie the game to the
presence of a knife and backpack at the scene of the crime. 
     There have only been two instances of a television network falsely 
portraying a best-selling book in a non-fiction program -- and the AD&D PH 
was the target in both cases.  [The other one was the CBS television 
movie "Honor Thy Mother" in April of 1992, dramatizing the identical 
murder.]
     McDonaugh portrayed Neal Henderson sharing a dingy motel-room with 
James Upchurch, plastered with (second-edition) AD&D posters and other 
assorted games such as HEROQUEST.  When the police break in and 
interrogate the nervous Henderson, he is seen sweating and fiddling with 
assorted polyhedral dice, until the "heroic cop" John Crone knocks the 
dice out of his hand.  As the story unfolds, Henderson appears to have 
been the "wheel man" for the murder, portrayed as being naively 
controlled by Upchurch the "dungeon master".
     It's ironic that an actor who helped to smear an imaginative hobby for 
millions of viewers ended up landing a role in a film for one of the most 
enduring and imaginative fictions ever presented on large and small 
screen.  Since there is some overlap between Star Trek fans and fans of 
role-playing games, no doubt McDonaugh will get a cool reception at Star 
Trek conventions. 

Pierre Savoie (ab966@torfree.net)

     Typically of the media, they gleefully sensationalize anything that is not understood by
the general public.  Since role-players are not an organized group, we have a difficult time
defending ourselves.  It is the hope of this editor that The RPG Times can do it's part in
debunking the myths that surround role-playing, and educate people to the truth - that it is a
wonderful hobby for people with active imaginations.  
                                                   Karen

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Monthly Columns:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rambling Thoughts
Kosala Ubayasekara (d96-kub@nada.kth.se)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      - Boo! I said.. -

        The trees thin out as you approach the clearing.  A fire burns merrily
in the middle and a small bearded man stands with his back to you, warming
his hands on the heat.  You tap him on the shoulder startling the little man,
who whirls around,loses his balance and promptly sits on the fire.
        "Yeoooww!!!!", he jumps up and starts running around the clearing using 
his hands to extinguish his flaming posterior, and emits a sigh of contentment
when finally he succeeds.

        Assuming a look of intense indignation he charges at you yelling,
        "You inconsiderate lummox! I, the great and powerful magi Earl Munster,
invite you to my campfire and you repay me by scaring me half to death and
burning my backside."  He suddenly slaps his forehead violently. "Scared me?
Of course, I was supposed to tell you about fear."  That being decided he
suddenly forgets his rage and motions you to sit beside him.  Rubbing his aching
forehead he says,
        "I have of late seen many a Game Master aspire to instill fear in his
adventurers, and fail miserably.  So in my great generosity I have invited YOU
to a lesson on `fear' so that you may learn the true art of ...", the great
Earl Munster hesitates as if at a loss for a proper phrase, "... scaring
people."  To teach you this lesson will come none other than the master of fear
himself, Death.

        No sooner are the words out of his mouth than fog begins to gather. The
surroundings darken and the trees assume an eerie incandescence.  A low shriek
begins far away and the fog continues to thicken.  A small line of sweat starts
to trickle down your back and despite the warm summer air you feel strangely
cold.  A strange chattering noise begins near you and you turn, hardly daring
to guess what monstrosity might be standing next to you, but you are relieved
to see that it is only Earl Munster's teeth.  The fog parts in front of you
and standing there in seven feet of black cloth and carrying a great scythe is
Death himself.

        Earl Munster emits a low groan and falls to the ground in a dead faint.
Death seats himself in front of you and assumes a cross legged position.
        "You did not turn and flee, mortal.", hisses the cloaked figure.  "That
is good.  There may be some hope for you Game Masters yet."  Another bead of
sweat trickles uncomfortably down your back.  The apparition that is Death
continues to speak.  "Now listen well, mortal, and learn."

        "When attempting to frighten your players you must remember first to set
the mood.  Turn down the illumination to a minimal, or totally if you dare.
Describe the setting.  Take your time.  The ghosts will wait.  Take a forest
scene."  You watch as Death motions with his hand and transports you into a
clearing.  The prone figure of Earl Munster disappears and the clearing doesn't
seem familiar.

        The figure of Death slowly melts into the air and soon there is only you.
You hear his voice,
"The clearing is dark now, with the twilight setting in.  The moon is in the sky
letting off a pale white light. Shadows begin to move in the trees around you."
You look around quickly but can't see anything clearly.  Sweat drops freely down
your body to your feet now in rivulets.  The voice speaks on, "Once the mood is
set, introduce something familiar to disarm the victim."

        "You hear a twig snap and you spin around to face the sound.  Heart
pounding, you move toward the sound."  Grasping unconsciously at your waist you
are surprised to feel the hilt of a sword.  You quickly draw your weapon, 
moving towards the sound.

        "You hear the sound of a figure moving in the trees right in front of
you and you wait in anticipation for the first sign of a creature.  Like a bolt
of darkness something leaps out of the trees and rushes at you."  You yell and
stumble backwards, almost falling over your own feet in the process.  A deer
charges past you, frightened of your sudden sound and runs straight across the
clearing and into the darkness beyond.  You give a small sigh of relief and
sheathe your sword gingerly.  Now everything is perfect, and the time is right
to introduce the unexpected."

        An earth-shattering shriek peels the night air.  You whirl around,
drenched in a cold sweat.  In front of you, on the other side of the clearing,
is a humanoid figure in a tattered and decaying cloak.  His back hunched so much
that his head is almost at the level of his knees.  He points one decaying
hand and a bony finger at you and shrieks again.  Moving at an astonishing pace
for someone of his stature he charges across the clearing, wielding a staff.
You backpedal furiously but the creature increases speed and keeps coming.
You turn and start running.  Crashing through the undergrowth running as fast
as you can, you can feel the breath coming out of you quickly and you hear the
creature behind you, near.

        An ill fate hangs over you today, a stray root catches your foot and
you stumble to the damp ground.  You reel as your foot catches something and
you hit the ground heavily.  You have only time to roll and face your hunter
as it comes up on you.  Staff raised to strike, it stands over you, hunched and
blocking the light of the moon.

        As the creature brings down the staff its cloak falls from it revealing
its face.  A wild scream escapes you as you look upon the decaying, half-skeletal
face that so unmistakably resembles your own.

        Screaming, you roll around the ground, hands thrown in front of your
face, but the blow never falls.  Daring a peek, you realize that the setting has
changed.  You are back in the clearing which you met Earl Munster, and sure
enough, he is just coming to his senses.  Death is gone.  Earl Munster stands
up groggily and looks at you.
        "My my," he mumbles, "I wonder what happened to me.  Who are you?"  He
points an old finger at you.  Then before you can answer he tilts his head at
an angle and seems to look past you, with his mouth in an 'O' shape.  Giving out
a weak giggle he once again collapses to the ground.  You turn around wondering
if Death has made a comeback.

        In front of you, on the other side of the clearing, is a humanoid figure in
a tattered and decaying cloak.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Top Ten
John "BJ" Tomkins  (gr8dm@acronet.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Character Classes that didn't make it...

10. Disgruntled Mail Carrier.
9. Beatnik.
8. Airline Steward.
7. The guy who gets up and says, "Time to make the donuts."
6. Public School Teacher.
5. Bathroom Attendant.
4. Paladin Cheerleader.
3. Lance Test Dummy.
2. Necromancer Heckler.

And the number one Character Class that didn't make it,

1. The Bobbit!

John "BJ" Tomkins
gr8dm@acronet.net
http://www.acronet.net/~gr8dm

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MaBarry's Amusings
Meera Barry (mabarry@abwam.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Significantly Other

    The snow is falling lightly against my window as I mention that December is
often not considered the month for a young woman's fancy to turn to thoughts of
love.  No matter where in the world you are, it is usually the spring that is
the time where animals and plants alike are renewed, and their prospects
reviewed for the coming year.

    Now, I, much like many, don't mind snuggling up for warmth under the covers
with someone who helps share the onerous responsibilities of keeping their half
of the blanket heated.  This is what got me to thinking...no, not thinking,
"Chainmail bikinis...now THAT'S what I want to wear in an expedition to the Icy
Mountains of Doom!", but thinking of just who that snugglesome 'other' might be.

    I often refer to adventurers as pioneers.  They go places that others won't
go (usually for good reason).  Things happen to them that would never happen to
average Joe Off-The-Street (again, usually for good reason).  They play with
powers (both magical, political, and sometimes even pedestrian) that Mr.
Off-The-Street doesn't always even know EXIST, let alone consort with on a
first name basis.

    This is not the kind of occupation in which you want to raise a family.
Sure, the wives of American pioneers were often forced to carry along, make
rations for their crazy husbands, and maybe, just maybe, luck out and stop
sleeping in the mire for an eventual mansion.  After all, there are perks, but
just how far will you go for love?

    Take your average Solo.  Buff, armed to the teeth for stegosaurus.  You've
accepted the invitation from this Solo of the attractive gender (let alone, in
fantasy situations, SPECIES) and are sitting in a hot neon grill, somewhere off
the main street.  You know, the classy little bar where some of the wiz rockers
occasionally come in to play a smaller venue, and your credstick has to look
good or the big guy in the back will escort you to the egress?  Yeah, you've
been there.  You're sitting down, munching on some exquisite soy (the good
stuff, where the texture is perfect and you might as well be eating REAL cow,
no matter how the thought disgusts) when the Solo who offered the invitation
jumps down, pulls you onto the floor, and draws a gun as the window shatters.
Not because the glass wasn't bulletproof, but because Little Nanny X, the
mother of the guy your so-called friend gunned down last week recognized that
jerk who is now swearing under his/her breath, and loading a new clip next to
you.  You think about the BFR8999 strapped to your boots, and how satisfying
it would be to wipe that stupid grin off of the Solo's face with it.  Instead,
you grab the credstick and run, thinking that Cuba is nice this time of year
and the currency can be converted just down the block.  Do it; it's the most
profitable part of the evening.

    Animal husbandry jokes aside, a ranger's got just about as many problems
finding a date on Saturday night.  Your classic fantasy genre woodsman-type
can't help but have troubles apologizing for why, well, there's a bear in the
kitchen helping himself, a colony of squirrels running loose about the bedroom,
and why you have to excuse yourself every time you squeeze by the monstrous
rhododendron in the foyer.  On the other hand, any good sylvan area has nymphs
a-plenty.

    A lonely wizard is a terrible thing, especially an honest one.  After all,
young teenage apprentices have a lot of time to think about that really GOOD
nymph conjuration spell, and even some 'Items of Technique'.  The apprentice
years can be rough; you don't have time to go out on dates, and when you do,
your master often wants you to "... pick up some rotting inkworm parts ..." on
the way back, or worse, makes you take his or her familiar along as a chaperone.
Still, these little outings can make a difference in the wizard's social life;
Little Nanny X might have too many freckles and a silly smile now, but she'll
be Sorceress X in a few years, and wear those slinky red gowns you love.
Besides, most evil wizards could use the therapy of someone warm to snuggle up
with; those enchanted towers can get COLD at night!

TOP TEN WORST PICK-UP LINES...for WIZARDS

10) "Didn't I just see you checking out those fertility spells?"
 9) "Is that a prophylactic or a phylactery?"
 8) "Are you sure green M&M's are part of the spell?"
 7) "Can I convince you to be the victim of a virginity sacrifice?"
 6) "Hey, your cat looks familiar...er.."
 5) "Didn't I see you dancing naked under last month's full moon?"
 4) "You look lovely in that robe.  Um, no, that's nothing, just an X-ray
    vision spell."
 3) "Say, would you like to come over and have me conjure you a drink?"
 2) "Would you like to wave my magic wand?"
 1) "...hey baby, wanna see my love potion??"

    Amberites can get dates pretty easily, but let me warn you now: an
individual Amberite can be nice, considerate, even warm under the covers.  It's
the FAMILY that's the problem.  Organized crime doesn't even come close.  Kin
and the kindred share a similar outlook on relationships.  You're either Crowley
(sharing the secrets) or BPS (Blue Plate Special).  It's always good to know
where you stand in a relationship with various monsters, before you need to
put more of a stake into it.

    Let's share a moment of pity for the WWGS style werewolves.  While other
werewolves are usually the only ones who really understand you, your only hopes
for a family are cruising the zoos.

TOP TEN WORST PICK-UP LINES...for WEREWOLVES:

10) "If you don't come upstairs, I'll just burst out of my clothes right here."
 9) "I'd love to see you in the raw."
 8) (wolf whistle)
 7) "By day I'm a top CEO.. but by night I'm an animal.."
 6) "I get even bigger during the full moon."
 5) "Hey.. I've had my shots!"
 4) "Want something warm and hairy under your covers?"
 3) "You look so good I could just eat you up!"
 2) "Wanna play 'Little Red Riding Hood'??"
 1) "Hey baby! You make me wanna Howwwwwlll.."

    Superheroes have it bad.  Not as bad as Paladins; there you are, snuggling
near the campfire, while Nanny X, the thief, is juggling knives and keeping
watch, her eyes somewhere on the horizon.  You wiggle a bit and get a little
closer, and all of a sudden, just as you notice the Paladin STILL has armor on,
he or she jumps up and says, "I DETECT EVIL!" and goes off on a quest to battle
it.  Superheroes at least often have headquarters with all sorts of nifty
gadgets to keep you occupied while they're off fighting villainous masterminds.

    Being dead can also be a problem.  The best you can hope for is looking for
someone who might want to jump your bones. So much for leaving the flesh behind;
ectoplasm is not an aphrodisiac by any measure.  About the best you get from
poltergeists is some crank calls peppered with heavy breathing.

    Being a Horrible Thing Man Was Not Meant To Know is also kind of a drawback
when it comes to the snuggles.  After all, if your horror is oft best named;
man will not know you.  No, not even if you wear 5 inch red heels and bat your
eyelashes.  My suggestion on that part is to check with Nyarlathotep; he's got
connections.

    It's getting cold in here, so I will leave off here for another month.
Next month's thought: what DOES this button do?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shocalogical Observations
Shocalog of Vulcan (rbarret@neo.lrun.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For a researcher of human behavior and culture like myself, the Internet is an
invaluable resource.  It serves as a catalog of the subjects considered
important by prosperous, educated and technically adept humans, and as such
confirms the suspicions of my sponsors on Vulcan.  The humans of Earth primarily
exist in material poverty, while those few with access to advanced technology
primarily exist in intellectual poverty.

Unlike television and talk radio, the Internet has proven valuable in my search
for subcultures exhibiting a higher than average level of mental functioning.
One such subculture which merits closer scrutiny is that of role-players.  As
a superior being, I have no desire to participate in their emotion-driven
activities, but as an impartial alien it is logical for me to become involved
in an advisory role.  Considering the significant difference in our mental
capacities, I recognize my duty to advise role-players who are searching for
wisdom and perhaps assist them in the attainment of more logical thinking.  To
that end, I am contributing this monthly column to the electronic magazine,
The RPG Times.  I do so in full confidence that my revelation of my identity
as an extraterrestrial will not be taken seriously.  With the advantage of
invisibility on the Internet, I need not conceal my pointed ears.

While RPG Times appears perfect for contacting relatively advanced humans,
logic dictates caution.  It may indeed be an enterprise with a continuing
mission, involving a hierarchic command structure and ethnically diverse crew
following a prime directive, boldly going where no one has gone before.
However, other possibilities must be examined.  The following data may be
enlightening:

1. Secret agents abound on Earth.
2. Elves, werewolves, and vampires abound on Earth.
3. Practitioners of magic have immense powers which are used according to
illogical personal preferences.
4. Hoaxes abound on the Internet and in other communications media.  Therefore,
the above data may be incorrect.
5. The URL of RPG Times indicates an origin in Adelaide, Australia, an
economically prosperous continental jurisdiction in the southern hemisphere.
Citizens of prosperous regions typically have more leisure time than average.
6. Highly intelligent individuals with excess leisure time occasionally
perpetrate hoaxes to test the mental acuity of others.  When a hoax is
discovered, it is classified as a work of fiction, a TV talk show, or a role-
playing game.  When a hoax is unknowingly propagated by the mass media it is
classified as news.

For example, a radio news program reported on November 27 that the President
of the United States had issued an official pardon.  The pardoned being was
not a citizen, nor a resident alien like myself, subject to U.S. law, but a
large domestic bird.  The bird was then removed from the White House and
released at a wildlife sanctuary.
This news report illustrates the prevalence of hoaxes in human society.  
Obviously no being with mental abilities superior to a large domestic bird 
would believe such an event could ever happen.  I found it puzzling that no 
emotional human listeners demanded a retraction of the story on the grounds 
that it insulted the reputation of the president.  The president is known for 
above-average intelligence and his partisan supporters should logically have 
been offended by this blatant hoax.

By logical reasoning I have processed the above data and formulated the
following hypotheses.  Humans who wish to become more logical should study and
imitate my methods.

1. Issue 11 of The RPG Times is indeed what it purports to be and the previous
ten issues actually exist in some form.

The remaining possibilities involve some form of deception.  Verification will
be difficult, while refutation will be simple.

2. The RPG Times is the work of an individual and all other purported
contributors are imaginary.  The primary suspect is Michael Popovich.  Secondary
suspects include all the other names that appear in issue 11.  It is illogical
to assume that an irrational and egotistical human would expend so much time
and effort without putting their name somewhere in the completed work.
3. The RPG Times is the product of a limited conspiracy.  Using pen names, a
small group may have simulated a larger group with ethnic, regional, and gender
diversity.  It is likely that such conspirators would have similar demographic
characteristics and reside in the same area.  Adelaide, Australia is indicated,
as is the role-playing subculture.  It is also likely that the conspirators are
males between the ages of 15 and 25, with advanced computer equipment and meager
social lives.
4. A wider conspiracy was involved.  Each of the purported individual
contributions may in fact be the creation of a committee.  Primary suspects
would include bored college students waiting for the next party, bored airline
passengers waiting for the next flight, and bored military personnel waiting 
for the next war.  Secondary suspects include bored vampires, werewolves, elves,
or some combination thereof.

The above speculations involve a hoax perpetrated for amusement only.
Possibilities of a more serious nature include the following:

5. The RPG Times is part of an elaborate plot to sabotage the Internet.  I shall
discuss this subject further in my fifth column.
6. The RPG Times was created to communicate data to or from secret agents.  The
tactic of hiding data in plain sight has a long history on Earth.  A variation
would include the possibility a secret agent infiltrated an existing group of
role-players in order to publish coded messages.  Speculation on the identity,
affiliation, and agenda of such secret agents must be curtailed or my own life
may be endangered.  I may have been warned not to divulge anything I may know
in this context.  I can not confirm nor deny any such rumor.
7. The RPG Times was created with magic, by advanced beings with an agenda.
Such beings could be benevolent, wishing to encourage the use of magic to
address the multitudinous social problems experienced by registered voters.
The sudden decline in reports of social problems after November 5, with the
concurrent rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, may indicate the operation
of powerful magic.  Therefore, The RPG Times may be a type of training manual
for elected government officials.  Alternatively, the magic-wielding entities
may be hostile.  Such malevolent beings would logically wish to hinder the use
of magic by their enemies.  By promoting the publication of inoperative spells
they would discourage the serious study of magic by intelligent humans, thus
preventing the research and development of effective spells.  The RPG Times
would also serve their purposes by furthering the illusion that magic is bogus,
and only suitable for children's literature and fantasy role playing games.
These hostile entities may already have succeeded in diverting the public's
wrath away from themselves by focusing negative human emotions upon peaceful
visitors from other planets.  The movie "Independence Day" is a perfect example.

8. The RPG Times originated by random chance, without any conscious design or
purpose.  The fact that it makes sense when read in English can not be taken
as proof that an intelligent creator was involved.  Humans often rely upon the
random chance hypothesis to explain the origin of systems as complex as carbon
based life and the entire universe.  Therefore, they should logically also deny
the possibility of intelligent design in all systems of lesser complexity.
Such lower-order systems include corrective lenses, alphabetic script,
electronic magazines, and the Internet itself.  In other words, The RPG Times
was a cosmic accident waiting to happen.

Each individual reader can test these hypotheses as I have done, by submitting
material for publication to the e-mail address indicated.  If the contribution
is published in a future issue this may be taken as evidence that The RPG Times
was created as, or is now in the process of becoming, an actual electronic
magazine, whatever processes and irrational motives may have contributed to its
origin.

Live long and prosper.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dragon Tales
H.W. Brennan (bcdefghi@gte.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Villains and Heroes

     A lot of people choose to be one of these. Some are cold hearted some are
as golden as honey.  But enough of this sap, lets get to the dirt. I interviewed
villains and heroes or good guys, whichever you prefer.  I found that both
fighters possess very strong ideas concerning their opponents. 
     
     The villains call the heros "Wimps" and refer to them as "The helpless
little brats, who couldn't fight without help from their little friends."
Surprisingly, most villains were heroes before they became villains.  They
found that people didn't respect them as much as they do when they are a
villain, but villains are evil, so if anyone dares to disrespect them, they
just strike them so hard they don't know what hit them!  Villains are all
different from each other. Many of them hold very high opinions of themselves.
They believe all of the other villains are nothing.  They stand alone, rarely
working with another villain.  The worst kind of villains are the ones that
hate everyone and everything.  They will do anything for money and power.
Villains are the ones who rule the world or at least try to.
     
       On the other side are the heroes and heroines. Some heros think that
"Villains are misunderstood."  Others have no problems with them.  This 'live
and let live' attitude does not always work, as most villains will find problems
with the good guys anyway.  For heroes, there are a few draw backs. There is
not much respect, for starters.  Plus, people don't want to fight you like they
would if you were a villain.  You usually don't get what you want.  The good
thing about being a hero is that when you fight you win.  It may take a couple
tries and the villains might win some of the time, but good will always conquer
evil.
 
     When asked, the heroes said "they would never want to be a villain, not if
their life depended on it!"  They really don't care for these bad guys at all.
The attitude and personalities of heroes and villains are both very different.
The fight may take place on a high-tech battlefield, but the struggle between
good and evil appears timeless.  Will these two sides ever see eye to eye
completely?

Maybe in time or maybe not.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Wyrm's Vault
Mark Eismendi (umeismen@cc.umanitoba.ca)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Night of The Vampire

	A couple years back TSR released a couple compact discs with some of
their boxed sets (Red Steel was the first I believe). I finally decided
to buy an adventure that came with one and it was a great purchase. It
was worked into the module beautifully. As I'm sure most of you figured
out, the adventure is called Night of The Vampire.

        The adventure is set in the home of a noble Lord Gustav Vandevic in the
Grand Duchy of Karameikos. The characters find themselves shipwrecked
near the manor, and are invited in. There is a celebration being
prepared for the following day. The Lord invites the characters to stay
for the celebration as honoured guests. He and his wife, Lady Selena,
host a tournament and masquerade ball for their neice Laina who is to be
wed. Difficulties arise, however, when egos and old wounds get in the way
of the festivities. The CD is filled with colourful dialogues which add
personality and life to the NPCs, while making the DM's job of
role-playing them much easier.

NOTE: A warning to Player-characters- the rest of this review is for the
eyes of Dungeon Masters only. It reveals several secrets about the
adventure and the NPCs which should not be known to the characters. If
this interests you, notify your DM of it and have them check it out(or
send them here if they're connected). BTW: if you happen to feel an urge
to read ahead anyway- Be strong!! Resist temptation!! Your DM isn't
stupid! If you recommend the adventure to him/her, and then suddenly
have all the answers they'll never trust you again.

	If you're afraid the compact disc will be too much of an interruption
to your game, put your fears to rest. The module signals you what track
will be needed, and even has a quick description of what it contains.
The tracks don't drag on (most are under a minute) and despite the
amount of tracks (72 in all), there is little or no jumping around.
Continuing with the adventure, the first night is uneventful for the
characters(they sleep after the shipwreck). This is a perfect oportunity
for the DM to add in anything of his/her own. You may want to work in an
encounter with one of the guests, so the PCs have something to build off
of during the celebration,(seasoned PCs shouldn't have any difficulties
role-playing the dinner and masquerade, but novice role-players may need
some guidance when interacting with the other guests). 

        The characters are awakened at midday. They are given the option of
wandering about the house (if theives take advantage of this oportunity,
use it against the PC's. They are the only strangers so if things go
missing the other guests won't trust them. That's the punishment for
disrespecting Gustav's hospitality!), or of skipping ahead to the
tournament. This is also a good place for the DM to insert an encounter
if desired. From personal experience, I believe a run-in with Gustav
just before dawn would be beneficial,(Gustav is the vampire. He tells
everyone he spends his days in the woods so no one questions his absence
during the daylight hours.).  I found that the characters heard little or
nothing of Andru until his "return" after dinner, and felt they then
received too strong a dose of him. Perhaps if his introduction into the
story is spread out through the course of the adventure, the PCs will be
less suspicious of him making it more difficult to point out the real
villian. 

        The tournament is a chance for some fun. Encourage the PCs to
participate. Thus far in the adventure there are no villians or threats,
so it is a good time for the characters to relax and enjoy Gustav's
hospitality. I personally found the tournament too short, and added
second and third rounds for the archery and swordsmanship contests.
During the course of the tournament some tempers will flare, and a
formal challenge to a duel may be issued to one of the characters. Be
fore-warned, low-level characters may be low on hit points (especially
if the swordsmanship contest was expanded). You may want to have Lord
Gustav send a healer to the characters after the tournament. If not, you
could be sending some of the low-level characters to your character
graveyard.

        After the tournament, Lady Selena Vandevic hosts a Tea in the
greenhouse. This is another opportunity for the PCs to catch wind of the
many conflicts stirring amidst the nobles. This is also the PCs final
opportunity to move about the manor freely without missing any of the
action.

        If Lord Hugo Strolojca had issued a challenge (upset noble from the
tournament), it would be resolved now before dinner. Be sure to keep an
eye on the characters' hit points. If at this point they're near death,
they may not finish the adventure alive (but perhaps as a vampire...).
After dinner (which is another chance for the PCs to gather
information), the fast-paced masquerade begins. If the characters are
mid-level ( 4th- 6th level; any higher and the DM should beef up the
adventure), you may want to split them up with their own encounters.
Although this may make the adventure more difficult (it certainly gives
Andru more opportunities to charm characters. Be careful who you decide
to charm. Be sure the PC won't blow his cover- mine shouted "What! Don't
I get a saving throw?!?". You can imagine my disappointment.), it also
makes the adventure more exciting and rewarding if the characters
succeed.

	Special Note: During the masquerade the character(s) will encounter
Andru (they don't know it's him unless they recognize his voice from
the track). He presents them with a riddle. If the PCs are correct, he
gives them another. In the second he all but exposes himself as the
vampire. You may or may not wish to include this second riddle,
(personally I regret using it). If fact, I recommend that it only be
used if the PCs are way off track and have no idea of the plottings that
surround them. Even then, other methods could be used. 
	After several dialogues with the other guests, one of the nobles will
launch an attack on Lord Gustav. Set a time limit for the characters to
react and make the rescue. If they're quick enough reward them, but if
not, perhaps Lord Gustav and Lady Selena should not survive. This is
entirely up to the DM. After all, what challenge is there if the
characters always arrive 'just in the nick of time'. More often than
not, Time is our enemy.

	By this time the masquerade is nearly over, and it becomes obvious to
everyone that there is a vampire present in case the PCs didn't know(a
girl has fang marks on her neck and has lost a lot of blood. Hmmm...).
However there are four guests who aren't present when the guests gather
after the attack. It would be much more interesting if the PCs didn't
know Andru was the vampire yet. If they do, then there is no point in
searching for the other three guests which throws some red-herrings. The
rest of the adventure is a man-hunt for the vampire, and a race till
dawn. If the PCs play it smart, they shouldn't have many encounters
through the night(although Andru will lauch a fearsome attack before
dawn). If they seek him out during the night, they could encounter him
several times, and they might require some divine intervention to
prevent from becoming vampires themselves. I personally gave the
characters a saving throw before draining life-force levels. Andru is
quite powerful if played to his full ability. 

	If the characters accomplish all of their goals, they should be awarded
well. Gustav and the other nobles will be most grateful and will likely
give some small reward of their own. Although there aren't many acts in
the adventure, it can stretch to eight or nine hours so you may want to
play it in two sessions. Have fun! 

Upcoming reviews: Still working on Players Option:Combat Tactics
hardcover and my latest purchase, Players Option:Spells & Magic. After
that, we'll see what I can afford. Of course, if the IRPS could allocate
some funds my way I could continue with the most up-to-date releases....

[Editor's note - good luck Mark. We are all volunteers around here.  ;) ]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Real Fantasy
Bill Truglio (Llium02@sprynet.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Eat, Drink and Be Merry!
Holidays in the Fantasy Setting

     With the coming of the holiday season, I thought it best to give an article
on Holidays. This seems to be a topic overlooked in many fantasy settings, but
really adds a great deal of flavor to the whole game when used well.

     Holidays have existed throughout history in one form or another. Even 
though most have some sort of connection with religion, there were often far
more mundane motivations behind each of these. Even before Christianity came
along there was a celebration every winter which included gift giving. Likewise,
there was a celebration at every height of the seasons. It wasn't until later 
that the connection with the celebration and the religion was formed.

Winter - Before the advent of roads and trade between great distances,
neighboring communities would trade with each other. One of the most important
seasons for this trade was the beginning of winter. Entering into the cold
months without a sufficient store of food stuffs, furs, fuel and livestock, the
community could suffer terribly.

     To this end, a celebration was held at the beginning of the winter for the
people of neighboring communities to trade goods. Soon, the trading inevitably
brought about ties of marriage, alliances and friendship. Once this was
achieved, an even exchange was no longer required. Thus the trade became gift
giving.

     Eventually, trade was made possible over great distances and the necessity 
of trading common goods was no longer required. By this time, however, the gift
giving season had already fallen into tradition and rooted itself firmly in
the culture. This brought about a whole new kind of need for this exchange.
The need to socialize. This drive for humans (and in fantasy settings, demi-
humans and humanoids), to socialize is universal. Every culture throughout
history had social activities to tie communities together. Some as simple
affairs with the sharing of food and drink. Others are grandiose, lasting days
and including everything from games and contests to the changing of laws.

     In the fantasy setting, there may be even more reasons for smaller 
communities to join together. Perhaps goblins raid during the winter, and
villages are forced to pool their resources for safety. Maybe the ice dragons
in the land have mating rites at that time of year, and all folk come to watch
as the magnificent beasts wheel and soar overhead in their dizzying display of
aerobatics.

Spring - Sewing the fields and sheering the sheep were often cause enough for
a celebration. These fairs were big happenings in medieval times, causing people
to travel for miles to attend. Young men and women would hire onto a farmer's
land to help with the work for a few coins of pay. Craftsmen and artisans of all
kinds would attend to sell their wares. Performers too would gather where ever a
crowd could be found to glean a few precious coins from the audience.

     Once again, the fantasy setting could provide many more reasons for spring
celebration. Maybe the community makes a large portion of their capital trading
rare beasts to outsiders. The spring would be a likely time of year to increase
the herds. Think of all the excitement a Griffin round up would generate. Or
maybe the spring is the time for all to go out in the fields to exterminate the
dangerous creatures that live in the area before they grow to dangerous
proportions. Wouldn't it be better to eliminate the threat of giant ants,
ankhegs and bulletes while they were still in the larval stage of development?

Summer - The coming of fair weather and warmer climates gave the common folk a
chance to travel with fewer hazards. As a result, the summer was full of fairs,
traveling minstrels and thespians, bazaars and huge caravans. Trade was possible
over greater distances, and so rare and exotic products would appear in the
markets and those from smaller communities would make the great trek to the
nearest city just to see it all.

     The fantasy world may have plenty of other reasons to bring people far from
home. How about a mage who holds a contest every year for the local wizards.
A kind of magical Olympics! The local lord could do the same with martial skills
to find the best warrior in the land. The winner may even gain the honor of
becoming the lord's personal champion. There could be brewing contests, hunting,
fishing, beauty contests and any number of others.

Autumn - Harvest time has held a special place in society for thousands of
years, and there's no reason to restrict this happy occasion to the real world.
The whole community might spend days reaping the fields and preserving the food
for the upcoming winter. (and start the cycle all over again) But it doesn't
always have to be a happy occasion either. Consider a community that raises a
rare magical herb and the influx of thieves, and mercenaries that would come
every year at harvest time. How would that effect the community as a whole?

     So you see, celebrations and holidays can be a tool for adding the element
of reality into the game. Used well and wisely, it's very effective. So go,
celebrate however you wish this holiday season, and remember what you do and
why. It's the best way to weave the holidays into your game.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Incoming Thoughts
Juan Camilo Rozo (jcr@geocities.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is it like Role Playing on other Countries?

        I am almost completely sure that the greatest part of all Americans do
not know what is it like role playing on other countries. Well, I obviously
cannot say about absolutely any country, but I think I am able to talk about
all LatinAmerica. I am Colombian, that means I live just south from Panama
(In case you are not very sure where Colombia is located). Besides living in 
Colombia, I have been to Mexico, and I know people from Argentina and 
Venezuela. Roleplaying here, is a very different thing from roleplaying in 
the USA. First of all, almost nobody knows any role playing game at all,
so it is very difficult to find anyone to play with.

        Maybe you are wondering(Maybe not) how come I learned. Well, my brother
had an American friend, he tought him and my brother tought me. I only know how 
to play Advanced Dungeons & Dragons 2nd Edition(TM), and the people which I 
play with are about five. I tought all of them except one who had learned 
on the only RPG club in Colombia. That is another thing, it is completely 
useless to know how to play any RPG if you do not have any person to play 
with.

        That is what Roleplaying in most countries besides USA is, a struggle
to find someone who teaches you, and yet more people so you can play. It is 
not easy, afterall, besides there are not many people who know how to play 
any RPG, there are even less people who know how to speak enlgish, making 
it even harder for you to play. That is why I am sort of gracefull that 
things like the IRPS exist, as it simplifies it alot to find alot of useful
information that I cannot find on my own nation.

Homepage:
http://www.geocities.com/Hollywood/Hills/1116


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Issues in RPG's
Jason J. Neigh (dude@isrv.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Some of you have already heard about the murder in Eustis, Florida, in
which five teenagers are suspected in the beating death of the parents of one
member of the group.  The group of teens are believed to be players of the
White Wolf game,  Vampire: The Masquerade.  That's right, another supposedly
role-playing related crime.  Now, before I hear that age old whimper that
always comes up from the role-players at times like these: "But, all role-
players aren't that way..." , followed by: "the games are as harmless as
checkers."  (or insert any appropriately popular game...);  I want to challenge
all of you to take another look at this topic.  Its high time the role-playing
community, for such we are, takes responsibility for itself, thereby promoting
a more positive view of gaming in our communities.  For this reason, I give
you these five responsibilities all I believe all role-players have.

     The first responsibility, and possibly the most important, is to decide
if the RPG's you play fit the same moral criteria that you use in real life,
then take action to make them fit.  That's right, I'm being so bold as to say
that if you don't see it as moral you should not be involved with it.  It is
better, when defending RPG'S, to believe in what you are defending.  I realize
that suggesting someone quit playing is extreme; but that is one of the most
severe ways to change your gaming experience.  A few alternatives are to look
at other gaming systems (there are many out there, including FREE ones on the
Internet) or to alter the system you like most to fit your requirements.  Due
to the personal and spiritual nature to this step, I can only tell you so much
about this area of role playing responsibility, but I can refer you to wherever
you seek spiritual guidance.  I also offer to e-mail a few related Bible verses
to anyone requesting them, and am willing to discuss alternative gaming that
takes it into account.

     The second responsibility is simply to be alert to the condition of those
around you and take action where needed.  The mind is a complex place, and
occasionally people need help; some people have problems that regardless of the
games can be harmful to themselves or others.  I don't expect that every player
get a psychology degree, just that they pay a little more attention to the
people around them and especially for particularly negative changes in their
personality.  These you'll want to bring to their attention, not in an
accusative manner, but rather as a supportive friend. I'll warn you - you may
end up in a situation where you have to ask a friend to quit playing for a
time.

     The third responsibility is to remember to put your friendships before
the game.  This doesn't mean that you can't oppose each other in a game, rather
that you can remain friends in the face of changes.  This may take the shape
of someone among your players being unable to continue playing the way you
have.  I'm calling for the maturity to support such a friend in such a
courageous decision; it takes as much courage to walk out of a game as an
adult as it does a teen.  Either way, they are a person of conviction and
strength, treat them as such.  I know its confusing.  I've had a few friends
come to me with moral dilemmas over gaming.  I didn't understand either, but I
supported them and call them friends still.

     The fourth responsibility I'm going to mention is your responsibility to
your local community and the role-playing community.  That is to use the
imagination, intelligence, and literacy that playing RPG'S has been argued to
nurture.  What you do with them is up to you, however I would remind you that
as a role-player, your actions do reflect back onto role-playing and role-
players, good or bad.  I for one will thank you for any and all positive
reflections.

     The fifth and final responsibility is the easiest to follow: Have fun.
Bear in mind however that this is the last responsibility in my list for a
reason.  By keeping the others in mind we can all enjoy a better gaming
environment.

     In closing, I would like to state that although I claim no authority
other than my own experience, I submit these five responsibilities to all of
you as my recommendations for prolonged enjoyment of role-playing games.  I
would also like to state my intention to turn this into a monthly column on
the issues affecting the role-playing community.  However, I could use a
little help from that community in determining what issues you want to hear
about. E-mail those to me with a subject line of: RPG Issues and we'll try to
address them through research and discussion.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Role Playing Aids
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Necklace of Raindrops
Jon Reed (jonreed@bigfoot.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The necklace of raindrops is a necklace made of a magically treated metal 
substance which is to be worn around the neck. It is also magically sizes to
fit the wearer's neck.  Often found in coastal kingdoms, most commonly on the
necks of royalty, this necklace gives great power against storms and water.  

The necklace provides more powers the longer it is worn.  It will produce one
pearl per year on the necklace, so long as someone continues to wear it.  If it
is taken off for more than 1 turn, the pearls fall off.  Furthermore, the
pearls fall off if the necklace is transfered from one person to another. The
pearls cannot be reattached to the magic in the necklace once they are removed,
except with the use of a "wish" spell.  The pearls are valuable, each worth
1000gp each, when removed from the necklace.

The following describes the abilities that are gained with each pearl on the 
necklace:

1 pearl .................... Create Water/2 gallons a day.
2 pearls.................... Always stay dry in precipitating weather. 
3 pearls.................... Wearer is immune to lightning, natural only.
4 pearls.................... Wearer is immune to wind, natural only.
5 pearls.................... Wearer is able to swim any river and is not         
                             affected by the strongest current.
6 pearls.................... Wearer does not get fatigued while swimming, so     
                             therefore can swim the widest sea.
7 pearls.................... Can stop it from raining or snowing/3 times a day.
8 pearls.................... Can make it start raining or snowing/3 times a day.
9 pearls.................... Walk on water, 6 turn duration/3 times a day.
10 pearls................... Breathe Water at will.

All these powers are cumulative.  Like all necklaces, it will not function if 
there is another necklace around the person's neck.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Black Lizardmen
Irving Galvez (egalvez@coreo.tamnet.com.mx)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
APPEARANCE AND DRESS:             

  Black Lizardmen are of  6'5" to 7'5" tall.  They have more walking capacity
than other lizardmen.  Their skin color varies from dark gray to black so it is
very easy for them to camouflage in the area.  They also can swim in the tar
but obviously can't breath in it.  They have forgotten their water breathing
ability.  Like their cousins, black lizardmen have scaled skin, lizard-like
heads and a long tail, their feet and hands are clawed and have webs between
their fingers.  They usually wear cloaks and robes but they also are known to
wear skinned or scaled clothes.

CUSTOMS:
  Black lizardmen naturally do not trust anyone that aren't their own kind. The
black lizardmen are also suspicious, but have accepted other races to live with
them.  The black lizardmen do not change their way of thinking.  They only
adapt the ideas of other races they deem to be good, and change them into their
system, into the black lizardmen culture.  They have high respect for the
family, and so they honor the old and protect the young ones.  They have
created a new educational system and teach their young lizardmen separately
from other races children.

  In everyday life black lizardmen act as normal humans do, they trade, work,
and have fun, but always the work and the study come first. For this reason,
black lizardmen may advance higher levels than their cousins (Level limits are :
cleric: 20, fighter and thief: unlimited, magic user: 14).  In this respect,
the black lizardmen are generally the equal to any other race.  Black lizardmen
receive an adjustment of +1 to intelligence and wisdom and a -2 in constitution,
because they place more emphasis on thought and education rather than physical
strength.  Also the black lizardmen learn an extra language for their high
intelligence.
                 

CALENDAR AND HOLIDAYS

  One day a month, the 16 of each, is a day of worship, and thus all work and
recreational activities are stopped for half the day, and at night, there is a
grand celebration in the streets of the community.

Given below is the calendar and some important days.

Month (28 days) Holidays
1  Tunkamunt       1(New Birth Year), 16 (Worship day),  28 (Farming day)
2  Darkand        16(Worship day), 27 (Dinosaurs day)
3  Weshedfy        5 (Spektrok foundation), 16 (Worship day), 21 (New Eve Day)
4  Kartunka       16(Worship day), 20 (Battle of the Reptiles)
5  Quentikar      16(Worship day), 17 (Annual Tournament Day)
6  Zsarkanton     13(Slardok XI Birthday), 16 Worship day)
7  Lazzkor        16(Worship day)
8  Yazzkantar      1 (Caravans Race day), 16(Worship day)
9  Kunegunde      16(Worship day), 25 
10 Torqueshka     16(Worship Anniversary Day), 21 (Death Night Crisom Day)
11 Zlorkand       16(Worship Day)
12 Diztenka       28(Old Birth Year) 

  New Birth Year:  is a celebration that all Black Swampers make to honor the
beginning of the new year.  They make great campfires and the old ones tell
historical stories of heroes, and how Black Swamp was born.  At midnight they
all start singing honoring Algotuku Kasquas.

  Farming Day: Algotuku Kasquas has blessed all farmlands and at this day
magically, all crops are rise up during the night hours.  The next day, the
Black Swampers build huge altars of fruit and vegetables to honor him.

  Dinosaur Day: Dinosaurs are the best working companion the Black Swampers
have.  This day all dinosaurs are given freedom.  Generally the Black Swampers
feed them very well.  It is not uncommon to see some dinosaus in the streets.
At noon there is a march with decorated dinosaurs, and the one that Slardok XI
chooses gets 1000 slaraks.

  Spectrok Fundation: This days conmemorize the first black lizardmen that came
to the Reptile Lands.

  New Eve Day: Spring festival.

  Battle of the Reptiles: In this day many years ago the first black lizardmen
settlement began to domesticate reptiles and in so doing, they eliminated thier
only competetion for food and territory.
  
  Annual Tournament Day: Black Swampers from all over the country come to the
capital to show thier skills.  Great prizes are give to the winners and even a
chance to be in the Folowers of the Spear Order.

  Caravan Race Day: This day, all merchant caravans participate in a big race
  held on the principal trade highway.  The winner becomes the oficial caravan
  of Slardok XI for one year.

  Death Night Crisom Day: Similar to the real world Halloween day. 

  Old Birth Year: The end of the year and preparation for the new one.
                                                                                            
                                 
MONEY:
   
     In the Black Swamp, trade is not limited to monetary exchange.  The most
common are described below:

  * Goods Exchange: A barter system where the merchants exchange goods which 
they produce or have extra for others which they need.

  * Money:  Royal Slarak = Platinum
            Slarak = Gold 
            Medium Slar = Electrum
            Tiny Slar = Silver

  * Signature Money: This is a very special type of money. It is similar to
credit of the modern technological world, but this can only be used by wealthy
citizens that earn more than 10000 Slarak a year.  When a black lizardman,
or any other creature has earned more than 10000 Slarak they can go to the
royal palace and open a signature money account.  There the Counters (Lizardmen
that administrate the account) give a special ring seal that the owner can
validate as a pay.  Then a merchant who is paid with a signed and sealed letter
of credit can go to the palace and be given money from the account of the
citizen whose seal appears on the letter of credit.

            
LAWS
                                  
Minor Crimes:                Prison Term             Fine(in Slaraks)
Assault (Unarmed)            1-3 Months                5-50
Flight from Guards           1-7 Days                  1-20
Petty Theft                  6 Month-1 Years          10-60
Lying to Guards              1-2 Days                  1-10
Disturbing Public Peace      1 Day                     1-5

Major Crimes:
Greater Thief                Death
Murder                       Death
Tax Evasion                  Death
Treason                      Death
Sexual Assault               Death

                                  
RACES
                                  
  These are the races that can be encountered in the Black Swamp.  All races
are accepted except gatormen.

            1.-  Black Lizardmen
            2.-  Lizardmen
            3.-  Humans
            4.-  Elves
            5.-  Dwarves
            6.-  Gnomes
            7.-  Orcs
            8.-  Bugbears
            9.-  Gnolls
            10.- Goblins
            11.- Kobolds
                                  
                                  
SOCIAL CLASSES
                                  
  Their are several social classes in Black Swamp.  Racial preference plays a
part but generally, wealth makes the most difference.

            1.-  King
            2.-  Nobles
            3.-  Rich Families
            4.-  Black Lizardmen
            5.-  Other Races 
            6.-  Slaves         

CLOTHES

  The black lizardmen like to wear any dark color cloth.  Generally it means
that they are sophisticated and aristocrats with a high level of preparation
in educational and cultural knowledge.  Usually the bright colors indicate
lower level classes because the dark clothes are more expensive and not all
Black Swamp races can afford it.  The high society wears boots, shoes or
anything similar, while low society wears sandals or do not use any kind of
footwear.


MILITARY UNIFORMS
                                  
  All military uniforms are of dark colors and each color identifies the type
of military order:

  Military Orders:                 Armor                Color

  Followers of the Spear   Chain Mail Armor +2          Black
  Heavy Cavalry            Dinosaur Scale Mail Armor    Dark Blue
  Air Assault              Dinosaur Scale Mail Armor    Dark Purple
  100 Feet                 Dinosaur Scale Mail Armor    Dark Green


NEW ARMOR AND WEAPONS
                                  
  Dinosaur Scale Mail Armor: This is a type of armor made from dinosaur scales.
This results in the armor having a better armor class and it is lighter than
the normal scale mail. This armor is also waterproof.

  Weight          25 pounds
  Cost           100 Slaraks
  Ac Mod.          6 bonus (AC 4)

  Mirror Shield: This is a special shield that in its the part facing the
  wielder, it has a silver cover that can be use to reflect light.

  Weight          12 pounds
  Cost            60 Slaraks
  Ac Mod.          2 bonus

  Flame Thrower Crossbow: This device is very heavy and only can be used by
characters that have a 18 or greater strength score.  This weapon is similar
in appearance to a crossbow combined with an arquebus.  It launches a baseball
size projectile that its specially fabricated to carry an amount of tar on it.
In the end of the crossbow is a burning wick, so that when the bullet contacts
the wick as it is fired, the projectile catches fire.  When using the crossbow
there is a 10% chance that the projectile does not ignite.

  Weight          10 pounds
  Cost           100 Slaraks
  Damadge        1d12+special
  Special dmg    When the bullet hits the target it sets fire to combustibles
                 which it contacts, and inflicts 4 additional hit points of
                 damage per round during the next 4 rounds as the tar burns.
  Penalties      -3 to hit rolls


BLACK LIZARDMEN AS PC's

  As stated in 'A WAY OF LIFE', black lizardmen advance in thief and fighter class is unlimited and the cleric and magic
user are limited. Here I will give the tables of experience points needed for each level.

                           EXPERIENCE
LEVEL            CLERIC         FIGHTER    THIEF       MAGICUSER
  1                1500           2200      1200          2200
  2                3000           4400      2400          4400
  3                6000           8800      4800          8800
  4               12000          18000     10000         18000
  5               25000          32000     20000         36000
  6               50000          64000     40000         70000
  7              100000         120000     80000         140000                             8        200000         240000         160000         280000
  9              300000         360000    240000         420000
  10             400000         480000    320000         560000
NEXT LVLS each   100000         120000    800000         140000

NOTE: Level limits for Magic-Users is 14th and Clerics is 20th.  If any PC
wants to continue advancing level, they must sacrifice one point from any
single ability score, or 1-4 hit points to Algotuku Kasquas the night of any
of the worships days (this apply to Magic Users and Clerics).  The clerics
and Magic Users can not use any fire base spells, as they are prohibited by the
culture.

HP ADVANCEMENT

  LEVEL          FIGHTER   CLERIC   THIEF     MAGICUSER
  1               1d10      1d8      1d6        1d4
  2               2d10      2d8      2d6        2d4
  3               3d10      3d8      3d6        3d6
  4               4d10      4d8      4d6        4d4
  5               ----      ---      ---        ---
  6               5d10      5d8      5d6        5d4
  7               6d10      6d8      6d6        6d4
  8               7d10      7d8      7d6        7d4
  9               8d10      8d8      8d6        8d4
  10              ----      ---      ---        ---
  11              9d10      9d8      9d6        9d4
  12             10d10     10d8     10d6       10d4
HP/LVL (LVL 12+)   3         2        2          1


WEAPONS PREFERENCES:
Fighter-
  Hand Axe
  Battle Axe
  Bastard Sword
  Flame Thrower Crossbow(described in a way of life)
  Spear
  Light Crossbow
Cleric-
  Hand Axe
  Spear
  War Hammer
M-User-
  Dagger
  Net
  Spear
  Whip
Thief-
  Dagger
  Short Sword
  Spear

Even when unarmed, black lizardmen still have their claws.  When striking
barehanded with their claws they get two attacks per round, and damage is
1d4.

SPECIAL ABILITIES:
Their land movement rate is 120 (40 ).
Swimming Rate 120 (40 )
Lizardmen have a natural tough hide; they have a base AC of 5.
Claw attack.
Infravision 30 .

SAVING THROW TABLE.

Lizardmen save as cleric of the same level.
Lvl         1-4  5-8  9-12
DRorP       11   9    7
MW          12   10   8
PorTS       14   12   10
DB          16   14   12
R/S/S       15   13   11

ALIGNMENT:

Lizardmen may be of any alignment, but most are neutral.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fiction:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Assassins
Tim Elford (shade@tusc.com.au) and Goran Zidar (goran@elf.aust.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Episode 5 

  
  The 
  Assassins   Argos - Thief 1st level LE (NPC)
              Craven - Duellist/Thief 1st/1st LE (PC)
              Keldirk - Thief 1st level NE (PC) 
  
  Locale      The three assassins left Chathold a week ago and
              have been traveling North en route to Ring Roads
              where they are supposed to meet their next Family
              contact - Saradock (a.k.a. Vesper). They are riding
              with a merchant caravan as guards. 
   
  Date        7th Fireseek 582 CY (Common Year) 
   
  Time        Mid-morning 


The land either side of the road was blanketed with snow, the recent sunny weather had
done little to melt it save turn the road to slush. The wagon on which they rode was
pulled by two large horses that sometimes struggled to haul the cart through the large
mud patches. So far they had not been required to get off the cart and push, but if the
road got much worse, that may become necessary. 

  
 Argos   I sure am glad we don't have to sit up there in the wind (motioning
         towards the wagon driver) 
  
Keldirk  Why? Are you afraid of the cold. 
 
Argos    No, its just that I'm not used to it... after spending most of my life living on a
         tropical island, this weather takes a bit of getting used to. 

Craven   I'll say, my hands are so cold I doubt I could write... let alone do anything
         else. 
  
Keldirk  I know what you mean... This journey seems to be lasting forever. I can't
         wait to get into some action. The fight on the boat seems like ages ago and
         that was the last time we got to do anything but wait around. 
 
Craven   (still angry at losing his fathers sword) I will never forget that trip. God I
         hate boats, they're like floating prisons. 
 
Argos    Poor Craven, scared of a little water. 
 
Craven   It's not that I was scared... it's... it's just I didn't feel in control. 
 
Keldirk  My goodness, have we actually found a blemish in the perfect Craven.
         Could it be that he is afraid of water. 
 
Argos    (smiles at his friend's expense) 
 
Craven   (looking uneasy) Shut up! Both of you. Can we talk about something else?
 
Argos    Sure. Like what? 

Keldirk  Like what we're going to do when we get to Del Mord.  Craven 
         What do you mean "going to do"? 
 
Keldirk  We have to do something... I sure as hell know I'M not going to spend any
         more time sitting around doing nothing. I need... constant stimulation.
         (smiles) 
 
Craven   Maybe we could get work as bodyguards. 

Argos    The way you can fight, maybe... but they'll take one look at me and that will
         be the end of that. 

Keldirk  I am planning on joining a thieves guild... I don't really care what you two
         end up doing. But it seems to make the most sense to me. 
 
Argos   (musing over Keldirk's suggestion) Sounds like a plan, we'll need to
         establish some contacts but I'M sure that won't be hard. 
 
Craven   Great... not only will we have to do work for the guild, but we risk getting in
         trouble with the law. 

Keldirk  What?!? Do you think what we do is legal? 
 
Craven   That's not what I meant... If we are known by the authorities then that
         makes it that much more difficult to become a face in the crowd. And what
         if guild business gets in the way of Family business? 
 
Keldirk  So do you plan on setting up a florist? (laughs) That sounds more your
         style... well it ain't for me. As I said, I don't care what you two do. 

Driver   Hey, you three... time to earn your keep. Get out here and help get this
         wagon through this shit pile! 


The three jumped out of the wagon and assisted the horses in pulling the wagon through
a particularly thick section of mud. After almost a quarter hour the wagon was finally
clear and they were covered in mud and were even colder when their sweat cooled.
They climbed back aboard the wagon and continued the week-long trip to Ring Roads.

The remainder of the journey passed without incident, several times they had to get the
wagon out of a mud patch but on the whole they did little other than stay warm by the
fire and wait. When they finally came upon Ring Roads, on the eve of the eighth day,
they were relieved that another portion of their trip was behind them. 

Ring Roads was less than spectacular. Looking around the area, the assassins saw
more tent poles than tents giving the whole encampment a skeletal look. Keldirk figured
there would be no more than four caravans here (including their own) and perhaps no
more than thirty tents. 

 
Craven   Where is everybody? This was supposed to be a trading town? 
 
Keldirk  It's winter, only fools and their horses travel the roads in winter. 

Argos    And us. 


They asked their caravan master for directions to the tent of the spice merchant
Saradock and proceeded directly there after collecting their pay. 

As the trio arrived a man was just leaving, he looked up at the three strangers. 

 
Man       (tying his tent flap shut) Can I help you? 
 
Craven    We were told that this is the merchant Saradock's tent. 
 
Man       Yes, that is correct. 

Craven    We have come to speak with him, regarding a business matter. 
 
Man       Well, business is normally conducted during daylight hours. (eyes
          narrowing) Who sent you? 
 
Argos     A man in Chathold called Don Lombard. 
 
Man       I see... I am on my way to the common tent. You are most welcome to
          join me. I am Saradock, you must be Craven (looking at Craven),
          you're Argos (looking at Argos) and you are Keldirk (looking at
          Keldirk), is that right? 
 
Keldirk  (nods) I prefer to be called Val Rorn. 
 
Saradock  Very well, now lets get some warm food and a few ales. 
 
Craven    Excuse me, Saradock. Are there any women here? 
 
Saradock  If you mean whores then the answer is yes. Let's get some food first, I'LL
          give you directions to the women later. 
Craven 
          Sounds good to me. 


Saradock finished closing his tent, turned and began to walk down one of the many
paths between the tents which made up Ring Roads. As he headed off he raised his
hand and waved back to his tent and two figures stepped out from behind, armed with
loaded crossbows. 

 
Saradock  These two have been hired to protect me should there be any trouble.
          One can never be too careful, a successful merchant like me has many
          envious rivals. You never know when an assassin might sneak up on you
          in the dead of night... 


They proceeded on to the common tent where Saradock ordered them a fine meal. It
was a pleasant change from the trail rations they had been eating almost exclusively
since leaving the island. They talked over dinner about various topics, relating the story
of the pirate attack and how they had lost most of their belongings. Argos mentioned
that he had lost his crossbow and Saradock assured him that he would be given one in
due course. 

Craven was directed to the local prostitutes and the others went back to Saradock's
private quarters. Once there Argos went to sleep while Keldirk and Saradock stayed
up drinking and talking. 

The following morning Craven arrived at Saradock's tent before the others had woken.
As he approached the tent he was confronted by Saradock's two guards. 

 
Man #1    What's your business? 
 
Craven    I am here to see Saradock... I was with him last evening. 
 
Man #2    We weren't told to let anyone in so I guess you are going to have to wait. 
 
Craven    What are your names? 
 
Man #2    What's it to you? 

Craven    I like to know the names of those I... talk to 

Man #2    I'm Gratten and he's Harf (pointing to the other man)
 
Craven    Well met Gratten, Harf. 
 
Saradock  (opening the door to his tent) I thought I heard talking out here. Good
          Morning Craven. I trust you had a pleasant night? 
 
Craven    Yes, although the women here didn't seem quite as enthusiastic as some of
          those I met in Chathold. 

Saradock  (chuckles) Fear not... you will be in better hands once we reach Del
          Mord. Wake your companions, we will be leaving in a short while. 


Saradock picked up some of his gear and went outside, calling for Harf and Gratten to
follow. Craven went first to his provisions pulling out a loaf of stale bread before
waking Argos and Keldirk. 


Keldirk   (yawns - rubbing his head) What day is it? 
 
Craven   Had a little too much to drink last night, eh? 

Keldirk  (scowls) You could say that... 
 
Argos    Are we leaving today? 
 
Craven   Yes, Saradock has gone to organize his crew and he told me to wake you
         guys. We will be leaving shortly. So I guess we wait here until it's time to
         leave. 
 
Keldirk  (stretching and collecting his things) Saradock said that we could
         replace any of our lost equipment from his supply stores. I don't really have
         anything I need to replace except to maybe pick up a few more throwing
         knives. 
 
Craven   I can never replace what I lost... but I could do with another rapier. 

Keldirk  They're not likely to have one of your knitting needles among his equipment.
         Real fighters prefer weapons with a bit of meat behind them. 
 
Craven   (ignoring Keldirk and turning to Argos) Are you getting another
         crossbow? 
 
Argos    If they have any... I feel naked without one. 


After a several minutes they were ready and Saradock returned. 

 
Saradock The caravan is almost ready. Follow me to the supply wagon and after
         my tent is taken down we will leave. 


Outside, several men with tools and bags were waiting to dismantle Saradock's tent.
They walked down three rows of tents before coming to several wagons. Saradock
pointed one out to them telling them they could take whatever they required. 

Two days from Ring Roads the caravan was stopped as several bolts thudded into the
ground around the wagons. A lone figure stepped out onto the road and addressed the
caravan. 

 
Bandit   You have been stopped by the Ring Road Raiders. Lay down your arms,
         leave your wagons and you will be permitted to live. If you choose to resist
         you will surely - 


His words were dramatically stopped as a crossbow bolt entered his mouth and
emerged out the back of his head. He remained standing for several moments before he
collapsed to the ground, blood pouring from the horrific wound. 

 
Argos    (lowering his crossbow) Just like shooting Wamp-Rats back home... 

Keldirk  (draws his throwing knives and scans the surrounding trees for
         potential targets) 
 
Craven   (draws his saber and waits by the wagon for return fire) 
 
Gratten  (loads his crossbow and waits for a bandit to come into view) 
 
Harf     (draws his sword and waits) 


After several tense minutes of waiting, no retaliation was forthcoming. Harf, Craven and
two other guards went into the forest to see what was going on. After a brief search
they discovered five crossbows with string tied to their triggers allowing them to be fired
simultaneously. There were no other bandits and it seemed as though the Ring Road
Raiders consisted of just one man. 


Keldirk  That was one hell of a shot. 
 
Argos    (smiles) I hate losing my weapons... 

Keldirk  (obviously impressed) I hope I never end up in your sights. 

Argos    I don't think there's much chance of that. 
 
Craven   (to himself) Unfortunately. 


It was at that time that Saradock approached them his face was red and his mood was
not good. 

 
Saradock Who the hell gave you permission to decide the fate of MY
         caravan! 
 
Argos    I evaluated the situation and made a decision; it was a judgment call. 

Keldirk  It worked out fine in the end.. so what's the big deal? 
 
Saradock (glaring at Keldirk before returning his gaze to Argos) In many things
         you will be left alone to decide your actions. But when it comes to my
         caravan the only person with authority in that area is me. Is that clear!? 
 
Argos    Perfectly. 
 
Saradock Good. I hope you show as much initiative when you are working. 


The remainder of the journey to Del Mord was uneventful. Gratten and Harf spent
some time playing dice with Keldirk and talking with the others. When the caravan
arrived at Del Mord the two mercenaries announced that they were continuing on to
Tusk. 

On the morning of the twenty first Day of Fireseek, almost three months since they had
left the Olman Islands, the trio arrived in the city which they would call home for the
next several months. Here they would be required to forge lives for themselves and here
they would begin doing the work for which they had been trained . At last the traveling
was over and their lives begin... 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fireside Chat
John "BJ" Tomkins   Submitted by: Lisa Mizeri (lmizeri@westlink.net)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Welverin Rilyn'tar
Lisa Mizeri  

     "Welverin Rilyn'tar?  Yes, I know of him, though we've never held
conversation.  I wouldn't advise crossing swords with him either, youngling.
What?  Why not?  Oh, the cockiness of youth!  Stand me another pitcher, friend,
and I'll tell you a tale.

      "I was with a company of foot at the time, and we'd just finished a hire
- successfully - south of where Val Wanthar used to stand.  Ever seen those
ruins, youngling? - Well, no mind, I daresay you've time yet, if your courage
holds fast.  Well, as I've said, we'd finished our hire and decided to winter
in Val Pathan, instead of pushing a late-fall march on the men.  We were all
feeling rich, and, I suppose, full of ourselves.  About five of us officers
decided to treat ourselves to a bit of something over at Kethalandril's Bane.

     "We were well into our third or fourth 'something' when the Lieutenant
started to recount the tale of why the Bane was named as it is,  - a story no
doubt even you know.  Anyway, talk naturally turned (as it does between men of
our calling) to the subsequent exploits of the inns' owners.  There was one
among us, a coarse, broad-faced beefy fellow newly promoted to command, who
loudly expressed his belief that he was able to 'thrash the piss outa any one
o' 'em.'  Those are his vulgar words, not mine.  Well, as I mentioned, we'd all
had a bit much to drink, and though he was a steady enough fighter in a
lumbering sort of way, I'm sorry to say we laughed at him.

     "Hot headed he was, and young; he was unsure of his new status, and hadn't
enough brains to shame a cricket.  Oh and he was drunk, all right, but only
enough to swell his bravado (for he had no real courage, and later deserted his
command under fire), enough to convince him of his soberness, yet not enough to
fox his skill or reactions.  He swore loudly he could prove his skill, and
would, before sunlight again warmed the soil.

     "No sooner had the words left his lips than a throaty chuckle sounded from
a dimly lit corner nearby.  I glanced over, curious, and there leaned the lithe
figure in an attitude of complete nonchalance, hardly larger than a child.  It
seemed to draw the shadows to itself and gather them close like a cloak of
unobtrusiveness; indeed I'd not noticed it at all until it's amusement drew my
attention.

     "As this - admittedly provoking - sound fell upon the ears of my foolish
table-mate, he leapt from his chair with a great oath, and shouting abuse
advanced threateningly towards the child-figure.  It ignored him.  Finally, in
his rage, the soldier hurled his heavy ceramic ale mug (which he'd all the
while retained in one massive fist) at the others' head, ...and missed.

     "Even had he not thrown wide of his mark, I'd not have vouched for the
outcome of the ensuing fight to be in his favor.  As the mug shattered in a
spray of ale and stoneware against the plaster wall, the child-figure, in one
fluid movement, appeared in the lamplight, unwilling to let this last act of
idiocy pass.  I don't think anyone saw him move.

     "It was immediately evident to everyone present that, although young, this
was no untutored child.  It was also evident, from his grace and appearance,
just who our foolish companion had provoked.

     "His long, thick silver hair was held of his high ebony brow by a tarnished
silver circlet; his finely arched eyebrows drawn together in a faint annoyance
over small, titled violet eyes filled with cool amusement at the others
impending...how shall I say it?  Predicament?  His nose had often been broken,
and was flanked on either side by prominent narrow cheekbones too high for his
narrow face, which hollowed his cheeks and rendered his whole countenance as
rather cadaverous.  A mocking smile played about his thin lips as he lifted his
pointed, stubborn chin, and chuckled once more.  He stood easy, ready, and
perfectly balanced, as one long-fingered hand rested comfortably on the finely
worked hilt of the rapier sheathed at his side.  I couldn't help noticing an
odd ornament on his scarred wrist; a slender wire, ivory handled, thrice
wrapped and looking uncomfortably like a garrote.

     "You should have seen us scramble to clear a space for combat, scuttling
backwards in as undignified manner as possible!  Us, hardened warriors,
officers for blood's sake, afraid of that ... sable wraith!  Oh, how you'd
have laughed!

     "Rilyn'tar drew his shining, unmarked weapon with a smooth flourish, as
our cocky acquaintance stood before him, fumbling to draw his weapon, pale to
his thick lips.  It occurred to me, in the oddness of the moment, that it was
if the blood raised by his rage had deserted his face and rushed to his heart
to await the first opportunity to escape his body.

     "I was sure that opportunity would come in the next few seconds, and I've
no doubt the fool also believed he was a dead man, but the young dark elf
evidently preferred to add injury to insult (instead of the other way around)
for his first strike was a reprimanding tap on the others wrist, as if to say,
'Hurry up, I'm waiting....'

     "The soldier ripped his sword free of the scabbard with an almost
convulsive movement as the flush of rage (and effort) returned to his features.
He managed to block the elf's first real attack, but could not hope to match
him in either strength or agility, and with the second thrust Rilyn'tar
sheathed his rapier in the others thigh. 

     "I think all of us watching expected a fatal end, then, but it seemed as
if, first blood being drawn and thus having observed at least one rule of
conventional combat, Rilyn'tar felt no further need for his weapon.  Or so it
seemed to me, for as he withdrew it from the others body, it flew violently
from his hand, and over our heads.  'Gods!', I remember thinking, 'Surely he
can't be so...!'  My illusion of his cockiness was shattered in the next
instant as he called out 'Duck!' in such a rueful tone that to this day I can't
help but wonder if it was a regular occurrence with him.

     "It was obvious that the other believed he had the upper hand, for he
threw back his broad shoulders and opened his mouth as if to laugh - and
stumbled back in shock as the elf's well-placed kick sent his sword spinning
from his grip.

     "I couldn't make out much of the rest of that battle, although I watched
attentively for the remaining few minutes, utterly fascinated by the display
of skill I was witness to.  The dark elf moved far too quickly for me to
discern his individual kicks, but I could clearly hear the dull thud of flesh
on flesh and had no doubt as to the final outcome.

     "I was right, with a last heavy thud - a grand finale, as it were - the
fool hit the rough floor-boards face down, unmoving, unconscious.  The dark elf
stood perfectly still and apparently relaxed in the silent room.  Then, with
a movement so swift and birdlike that I believe he startled us all, he bobbed
down and grabbed the unsuccessful combatant by his dirty tunic collar; and
whistling a merry tune that fell as sharp on our silence as would have breaking
glass, dragged our companion from the room.

     "Still we sat unspeaking.  I could hear the heavy thump - thump the
soldiers' feet made as he was dragged down the few outside steps, the same
cheerful whistling, a great splash, and a weak groan (we later discovered the
victor had tumbled our unlucky companion head first into the horse trough to
revive him).  Mumbled conversation returned immediately to the room, as if by
our common agreement.

     "The dark elf re-entered (still whistling) some few moments later, rubbing
his hand on his soft black leather breeches as if it had been sullied by the
others' tunic collar.  He sauntered over to retrieve his discarded rapier, and
in a light tenor apologized to our table - apologized! - for unintentionally
attempting to 'separate our brains from our briskets'.  Then, with a wink for
the barmaid, he faded back into his corner, drawing his cloak of shadows about
him.  Thus was my first and only experience of Welverin Rilyn'tar."

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Long Time Ago, In a Galazy Far Away...
James Colin Millington (raider@interlog.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Long Time Ago, in a Galaxy Far Away...

"A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away..."

        Many of us remember seeing these words appear in a movie theatre, or at
least heard them. They began a science fiction phenomenon known as Star Wars.
The saga that George Lucas started has a strong following to this day. Not
only in the original movies, but the toys and merchandising, the follow-on
books, starting with "Splinter of the Minds Eye" by Alan Dean Foster, among
others that followed the previous lives of some of the other characters in the
main story. In the current day the Star Wars craze has swept the world, and
apparently died out. Or has it? The toys have come back, redesigned.  New books
have been released telling the continuing tales of our heroes. The original
movies are to be re-released with some footage cut from the original added in,
and Lucasfilm is planning a new trilogy to prequel the original not long after
that. As a matter of fact, so much source material about Star Wars, coupled with
the popularity of the saga itself, made it a natural next step for a role
playing game. This RPG was released by West End Games not long after "Return of
the Jedi", and has become an integral part of the universe.  Source material
from the game is used by many of the current authors to write the new novels
that have been showing up on shelves so frequently in the last couple of years.

        It is the RPG these articles center around, and in particular a game
that I am currently GMing from a module in a play by email format. I have taken
all of the responses from players and all scene set-up and edited them into a
short story, at the time of writing, this story has not yet concluded, and as
long as there is interest, it probably will not.  Since all of the dice rolls
and such are not seen in a short story, I will add "margin notes" to illustrate
where and when, as well as the outcome of, all dice rolls. I am still not sure
if this will be more of an annoyance, an aid to those who wish to turn their
game into a story, or an aid for those who wish to take a story from a novel
or such and incorporate them into a game. There is only one die roll in this
first installment, most of this portion was taken up with the introduction to
the adventure.

        Another point of note, since much of the readership of the IRPS is TSR
oriented, I will take a minute to explain some of the differences in dice
rolling and general game play. In short, Star Wars has a simpler, more basic
dice system than TSR, the only dice you need are 6 sided, however you need a
lot of them.  When a character uses any skill (blaster, first-aid, computer
programming), the GM must figure a difficulty, if there is a module that gives
this to you great, if not, just think how difficult you think it should be,
after all it is your world.  You can either select a set number reflecting a
difficulty ranging from very easy to heroic, or you can use the random
difficulty method, very easy is 1d6, roll it and you have the difficulty,
heroic is 9d6 or more. This allows a very difficult task that could easily be
considered at 54, to become a 9. On the down side the task may be too easy now
(increase the number to a realistic one anyway), or can reflect that even
though the task should be exceedingly difficult for the character, they did
not find it so difficult this time. This difficulty is modified in some cases,
such as partial cover for ranged weapons, or distance and familiarity for some
force talents. This will either increase or decrease the difficulty. 

        Now that you have the difficulty of the task, how does the character
roll? Well, if the character has the skill being used, blaster for instance,
that they have increased their proficiency in. This increase allows the character to use
more d6 to roll. If the player did not take this particular skill the attribute,
in the case of blaster is dexterity, would be used.  Hence any player can do
anything, just some do it better than others. Since in Star Wars there is no
differentiation between weapon and non-weapon skills, they are resolved the
same way.

        If you are the kind of GM who can not make up your mind whether your
characters will run into something and think, "Gosh, it's not likely, but they
could run into a squad of stormtroopers here, it seems like a 10% chance, but
still...", by all means, though the book does not say you should, use a
percentile roll.  If the unlikely happens, well gosh your characters just ran
into a squad of stormtroopers.

        That should cover the basics of the rules to understand what is going on
with all the dice rolls. Now for the first instalment of the story as it stands.
This group has existed in a face to face campaign for about a year prior to
moving to play by email and the characters already have a fairly rich history.
So this is not the beginning of their adventure, just the beginning of a new
misadventure. The module is called "Tatooine Manhunt" and was reprinted in
"Classic Adventures Volume Three".

If anybody has any questions concerning the game, its play, or even if there
are any areas you would like explored in future articles, please feel free to
get in contact with me at "raider@interlog.com". "May the Force be with you...
always".

Episode 1 - Part 1

        Kwenn space station, inarguably the last stop-over before the Outer Rim
Territories. As such it is always a bustling hub of activity in space, with
many concourse levels, administration levels, small craft hangers, and an
enormous space dock facility for repair and refit of Capital Class ships the
size of an Imperial Star Destroyer. 

        The station services all forms of customers from the far flung corners
of this arm of the galaxy. Though it is under Imperial control, the presence
felt at Kwenn is only noticeable when ships, such as the STD Relentless
currently at the station, are in system for repairs and/or shore leave. As
with any far flung trading post there are always small freighters coming and
going, transporting goods that are bought, sold, or transferred at the station.
Such outposts usually attract the attention of those rogues who move cargo and
passengers illegally, as well as those who steal cargo from other vessels. It
has been said that if there is a star port you will invariably find smugglers,
pirates, and mercenaries of all types nearby, Kwenn is no exception to the law.

        Whether be it legitimate or illegal, moving from system to system with
an empty hold is expensive, with no cargo the bills quickly add up for those who
are not independently wealthy. A good captain will always have a full hold,
even if purveying the goods will only cover the cost of fuel. With this in
mind any ship that has an empty hold, does not look like a pleasure yacht, and
lifts from any star port appears very suspicious. The Imperial fleet usually
goes to great lengths to scan these vessels, cross reference their information
with the database, and invariably board them anyway to inspect the ship for
signs of smuggler or pirate activity. Things such as hidden and shielded
compartments and dampening fields are frowned upon and usually result in the
confiscation of the ship and imprisonment up until recent times on Kessel. So
no matter how useless the cargo, unless other business is stated, all captains
make sure there is a cargo in the hold of their ship, even if they plan on
dumping it at their next port of call.

        This brings us to the plight of three members of the fledgling New
Republic, if somewhat freelance: Tividor, Samantha, and Bracha. Their plight:
they have an empty hold and wish to leave Kwenn. As Sam and Tiv have tried
acquiring cargo at many locations, unsuccessfully, they agreed to take turns as
to who gets to speak to each prospective customer. The Wookie, Bracha, follows
Tiv around like a lost pet, though to the infinite disappointment to some who
found out the hard way that the Wookie owes the tall, slender near-human a life-
debt, which he intends to pay in full, as is dictated by Wookie honor. Anyone
aquatinted with Wookies knows that the shortest stand at two meters tall, with
fearsome strength and long, shaggy hair, in Bracha's case brown with creme from
throat to abdomen and at the end of his arms and legs.  

        After lengthy discussion Tiv and Sam decided that today's choice for
customer hunting would be the star port cantina, upon hearing a tip from another
freighhauler suggesting that since spacers hang out at the bar, people looking
for spacers also tend to hang out at the bar. It was Sam's turn to try and
contact a customer besides she figured that buying a prospective customer a few
drinks would help them clinch a deal.

        "I guess going to the bar is the best plan right now, unless you want to
ship something for the imperials," Tiv said with a shudder, "in which case,
knowing us, it won't find it's way to its destination...which might not be
entirely prudent...."

        Sam looks at Tividor with a murderous gleam in her eyes.  "We don't deal
with Imps!  We kill Imps!  Got it?", she bites in a whispered scream as if she
were speaking to a young child.

        Tiv glares down at Sam, a steely look in his eyes, and replies, "Of
course we deal with imps!  Our blasters deal with stormtroopers, my bank account
deals with their riches, and I have been known to occasionally deal with their
problems of having too many ships in their fleet one way or another. What I am
saying is that despite the temptation to do half of a delivery for the imperials
(do the pick up and never mind delivery), getting our faces too well known might
not be entirely healthy, so we shouldn't go to the imperials for cargo.

I never had, ANY, intention of actually delivering anything for them unless it
was with an additional explosive 'surprise package'..."

        After they walked into the dark smoky atmosphere of the cantina, they
noticed that, after the harsh artificial lighting outside, they could just make
out the form droid detector beside the door and very little else. As their eyes
adjusted to the dark, they could see the bar.  An anywhere star port bar with
it's usual pilots, usual drunk denizens, and a few business types. In a couple
of booths there appear to be games of sabbac, going on. As they proceeded
inward, they could not help noticing that, in addition to the usual riffraff,
there were a large number of para-military types, mercenaries or bounty-hunters
by appearances. The big Wookie easily clears a way to the bar for the entire
party. As they followed the sudden path Sam realized that everyone in the room
could see them clearly as they entered the room, almost as if it was the reason
it was darker in here, to let the occupants see the new arrivals.

        The smell of spice, and tabac saturated the air as they made their way
to the bar, overpowering in itself and more so with the smell of other, more
illicit substances. After finally reaching the bar, Bracha cleared three seats
for himself and the others. It was not difficult - Wookies are feared throughout
the galaxy for their fearsome strength. All the other patrons seemed to be
quite happy to leaving them alone, giving them plenty of room at the bar. The
bounty-hunters seem to have the usual freighter clientele a little nervous, and
all strangers are being viewed warily, especially when they are or in the
company of a Wookie. Even the barkeep respects their space.  He appears willing
to serve but, does not appear inclined to approach unless summoned. He is a
Sullustan, not unlike one of Tiv's old traveling companions until he became the
plant manager on Kessel. His large black eyes and a mouse like face, perched
directly on a rotund little torso, standing at 3' tall making him appear as if
he was two thirds wide as he was tall, not atypical for this tunnel dwelling
race.

        Sam beckons the bar keep over and grins at him as she lays twenty
credits on the bar.
        "So my fine friend you must know a lot about this place.",  she says
as she puts her slender hand on top of the credits,  "I'm looking for a little
business.  You know, we can handle real delicate cargo if you know what I
mean?".  She watches carefully  for his reaction, and wonders to herself,
"I really have to learn more about this line of work.  Bribing an informant and
bribing a barkeep are a little different.  If I offered this to an informant I
would be laughed at, but with a barkeep it makes his eyes light up. So did I
offer too much, or not quite enough, and is he going to drive the cost up now?" 

        The diminutive barkeep turns to Sam and says,
"Sorry, the regular shippers won't come in here with all of them around.",
indicating the bounty-hunter presence.  "I don't know if the boss has any thing
he wants moved, but he usually has channels, mostly for imports. Have you tried
asking them,", again indicating the hunters in the room, "not all of them have
ships, and it looks like there is some big bounty being offered by the Imps,
they all showed up lately to be involved with it. Maybe you could take
passengers instead of cargo?  Now what would you fine gentle beings like to
drink, as the boss says, 'This is a drinking establishment, not a social club
-- No loitering, those without drinks have no business here.'"  To prove it
is not his personal view he indicates a sign above the bar that reads in big
bold letters, "NO blasters, NO droids, NO credit, and ALL customers MUST have
a drink in their hand". The Sullustan after reading this says to you, "Normally
we would have your weapons checked at the door, but because they", again
indicating the bounty hunters, "refused and shot the weapons check clerk, we
have relaxed the rule for the time being.  We just ask that you refrain from
using them in here. By the way, you don't seem much like the freighter captains
I've met, not quite as business oriented, more like crew, or a captain of a
shipping fleet ship, who doesn'tworry about getting consignments.  I have
not seen you around before, are you new to the free trader business?".
Bracha just snarls at the barkeep,
        "Arrrg Arrroooow arggra hmph!", bearing his teeth in the process.

        The barkeep just shrugs and asks,
        "OK, so how about your order?".
Releasing her hand over the credits Sam just shrugs.
"Oh well.  They are bad for business eh?  How about a Corellian Ale?", then Sam
raises an eyebrow at Bracha.  "Is there a problem Bracha?"

        Bracha replies, "Arg arrrogh arragh".  Since it appears obvious none of
his companions understand what he is saying he shakes his head.  The barkeep
pours Sam a tall glass of Corellion Ale.  He puts the glass of deep amber
fluid bubbling and foaming in front of Sam that she gingerly nurses, taking
small sips from time to time, asking for ice to be added.  Bracha says,
"Arrawoo?", and is severed a tall glass of some foul green liquid, that has
steam flowing lazily down the sides of the tankard.  As Sam and Tiv take seats
and enjoy drinks as they watch the crowd they end up observing a lively game
of sabacc between a Rodian and a Devaronian. As they watch the Rodian says
excitedly, "Thabacc". As he is putting the cards into the stabilizer field they
see the cards, the Idiot, a 2 of staves, and a 3 of flasks - the Idiots Array,
but before the card chips are in the field they start to shimmer, and before
their eyes they turn to the commander of staves, commander of flasks, and the
10 of sabres. A garbage hand, and the Rodian says, "NO! that can't be wight,
how could they wandomwy chwange then?  You are chweating! You have a card
fwixwer!". All the Devaronian had to say to this was, "Sorry pal, not your
night.". The Rodian then exploded into flames. When the smoke cleared all could
see the Devaronian putting a nasty looking blaster away and a really large
smoking hole through the table. What none could see was the upper half of the
Rodian. The rest of the Hunters all turned their attention to the fight, with
their blasters drawn. After surveying the results the hunters put their
blasters away and started clapping and cheering.

        This display of violence and mayhem completely disgusts Sam.  Sam sees
why they stopped collecting weapons at the door. The message notification on
Tiv's computer starts bleeping. This usually means the New Republic is trying
to contact you.  Sam stands up with a sigh.
"Well what a lovely sign of random violence.  I think we should head back to
the ship eh Tiv?"

        "I agree wholeheartedly.", Tividor says as they leave the bar.  Once
they have travelled one block away from the bar curiosity gets the better of
Tiv. He starts powering up his computer to receive the mail as he walks.
After downloading the file, he takes a quick look at the header and decides this
is not the right time or place to start reading it.  Not to mention, he would
have to concentrate to decrypt the file anyway, which was more concentration
than he could spend while walking down the road.

        As they make their way to their ship through the bustling hallways and
concourses of the station, the ever present gleaming white armour of
stormtroopers can be seen. They pass unmolested through the crowd of a
million sentient beings from half as many races.  Some they could recognise and
others passed by completely alien to them. It all served to remind them of the
cruelty and racism of the Empire. Many of these races are kept as slaves on
Imperial worlds, such as the large Wookie travelling with them.  Others have
their systems exploited for any and all natural resources that can be stripped
from the system. Others find themselves on the brink of extinction by some
genocidal moff, and some are simply hunted on their home worlds for sport to
amuse the Empires most elite and powerful.

        After an hour of wandering the station, they reach the Platinum Mist. It
is a well-maintained Ghtroc stock light freighter, the stock part being
stretched, The hyperdrive is almost a match for the infamous freighter of
General Solo, her subspace engines and maneuverability are that of a fighter.
Her sensors, thanks to heavy tweaking from Tividor can pick out a mynock on a
super star destroyer at half a light year. Her offensive armament is powerful
enough to take on the smaller capital ships, and her shielding and hull
integrity are enough to survive the encounter. Her completely unorthodox ECM
suite can avoid detection and block virtually all comm signals, and her security
measures are unparalleled in this galaxy. The Platinum Mist has many names,
this just being the latest, but by no means does the term "stock" accurately
apply to this light freighter.

        As they step up to the door and enter the entry code, they are aware of
weapons trained on them, if the code were to be entered wrong, they simply
would not exist any more.

        As the door opens they were greeted by a gold and silver protocol droid,
"Welcome back Master Tividor, the Nova is fully operational and ready to lift
when you are. @#$! YOU YOU %$#@^%&&. No thanks to that useless astromech of
yours, it still can't add even it had a calculator! Really Master I think you
should, #@%#$ ^%#%^#!@%, really get a new astromech droid." The protocol droid,
which Tiv hasn't bothered naming yet, still has a glitch in its language
processor, causing him to use profane language at the most inadvisable time,
a problem that the droid is not even aware he possesses.  Tiv has considered
shutting them down for good, but he knows that with a few parts available on
the station both protocol droid and the astromech droid can be fixed, they
might even learn to be counterparts in a couple of months, increasing their
effectiveness as a team exponentially. The problem was that they suffered
irreparable ion damage just before Tiv found the parts that he managed to
cobble together into droids. Tiv hasn't told anyone that he actually bought the
parts on the station.  He just hasn't had the time to fix the droids.

        "By your leave master, I will go back to keep an eye on that misbegotten
scrap heap working on the hyperdrive motivators.  ^%$##%$$&%$$", the shiny
protocol droid says before clanking off to supervise the astromech. Without
constant supervision the astromech would realign the hyperdrive motivators,
incorrectly, typically a fatal error. The astromech's particular problem is a
scrambling of the numerical processor, such that when a number is calculated,
the correct digits are placed in the buffer, only in a random order, so that
"123456" turns into "452631".  Tiv found  this out after having the droid
perform an emergency hyperspace jump calculation and discovered before the jump
that it would have killed them. Sam, Bracha, and Tiv go into the lounge/galley/
auxillary cargo hold and Tiv prepares his computer to receive the encrypted
e-mail with Sam and Bracha looking over his shoulder.


PRIORITY DISPATCH
FROM: NRI  
TO: Crew of the Nova
RE: Kestrels hatchling has left the nest

The encrypted attachment, was encrypted using a code that only Tiv and an old
friend of his know, one that could only be broken by Tiv. After spending a
minute entering the code and decrypting the message, all looking at the screen
could read it.

Well, Tiv, I hope this finds you in good spirits. Are you keeping out of
trouble?

One of our operatives aboard the STD Relentless has stumbled upon some very
important piece of information and has requested immediate extraction.  Her
spy mission was to end in one more year. Convenient that you are on Kwenn,
because that is where the Relentless is at the moment for repairs, it's the
big monstrosity below in the dock. You are to meet agent Dana at the end of
passage 5-23 on docking level 5. Keep in touch and let the force be with you.


        Sam recalls that docking level five is seven levels below them, in
the area of access routes for the large craft space dock down there.  Thus,
it must be one of the access tunnels to the STD Relentless itself. Sam looks
at Bracha and Tiv for a moment and says,

        "Perhaps we should head down there carefully and browse a little eh
Tiv?"

        "I think it is a grand idea.  I haven't stolen a star destroyer in far
too long...", Tividor grins mischievously.  "Don't go getting any ideas!  This
is just a simple extraction!  Let's go get the person and get out of here!",
retorts Sam.  "OK. If you insist, I'll be nice, this time, but whenever you DO
want to relieve the imps of a ship or few, remember who to call.", Tiv replies
in a hurt tone.

        Along with the encrypted message was a holoprojection file, when played
it displayed the image of an Imperial officer.  Also attached was a data file,
which would help them contact her and pass codes and countersigns.  The file
ended with something about having information on an Adar Tallon, a brilliant
strategist and a hero of the Old Republic. Everyone knows of him.  He was killed
in a pirate attack shortly after the Emperor introduced his plans for The New
Order.

        The last entry in the agent's file stated that she was considered
code-green, agent in trouble - immediate pickup.

        As the three of them made their way to the designated meeting spot, the
crowds grew steadily thinner as they drew nearer the large ship docks. By time
they reached level five, the corridors were completely deserted, they could
hear their footsteps echoing around them.

        As they rounded a final bend they saw their agent, lying on the floor
with an Imperial Officer standing over her. With him were two dangerous looking
individuals, a wiry female in padded armour, and a tall scaly humanoid with a
blaster rifle.  Behind them in an airlock whose doors were closing rapidly
they saw a sight that made their blood run cold, somebody in a suit of deadly
Mandalorian battle armour, like that of the famed Boba Fett. The blank face
plate turns and stares in their direction and stays affixed on them until it
is obscured by the door.

NOTES

1 The skill being used is code breaking. The roll for this was moderate.  Tiv
already had the decryption code but had to enter it correctly.  The rolled
difficulty was 3d, giving a result of 12. Breaking the encryption without the
code would require a heroic roll, there would only be one roll, if it was
missed the attempt will delete the message. Tiv's skill rating is 7d+1, because
he prepared he added 1d to the total to give 8d+1 resulting in a roll of 27.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dragon's Fire
Paul Johnson (Archm10361.aol.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     It was a cold bleak day.  Sir Thorin was slowly pacing along the castle
walls, thinking of his father who had died all those years ago . He was also
thinking of the Warrior Princess Alana, who he had met and fallen in love on
his travels.  It was getting late and he felt as if he was needed in the secret
gathering room beneath the castle.  When he entered the room he found his loyal
mages Dahmenayrbjah, who everyone called Dahmen and Talonshon, commonly called
Talon consulting each other in front of the pool of power.  They motioned for
Sir Thorin to gaze into the pool of power.  When he looked in the pool he saw
images of destruction.  At that moment Sir Thorin said,

     "Lets start contacting our companions."   He knew that what he said was
spoken of in the legends ... he remembered the legends saying something about
him and his companions being in a great battle but he didn't believe it.
Suddenly now, he had reason to, and Dahmen and Talon began summoning Sir
Thorin's old companions.

     First was his old friend he had met in the battle between Dwarves and Orcs,
Almond the Dwarf.  Then was Alana, who knew more about Sir Thorin than any of
his oldest friends.  Alana was summoned for her capabilities with a sword and
also because Sir Thorin wished it.  There was one more companion that was going
on the journey to fight in the legendary battle.  Sir Thorin had to traverse a
small way in order to talk to the last companion.  He entered a secret passage
only he knew about that was located in his room, and slowly descended down
steps.  As he neared the end of the dark passage he could him breathing and
smell a scent of dragon.
     
     When he entered the cave at the end of the passage he saw his most beloved
friend who he had raised from a baby.  It was Ralco, his dragon.  Ralco was
unlike any other dragon, he could talk.   Not everyone heard him speak, just
those who listened.  Ralco knew what was happening and said,

     "You raised me from a baby, and I will help you on your journey my friend".



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Members Announcements
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject:PBEM Director
Author: (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   One thing which you may not be aware of is that IRPS is an RPGA sponsored
club.  We can participate in any of their events in any district of the world.
Membership is RPGA is not a requirement for this officership.  Also, this 
director will handle communications between our associate gaming clubs.  If
you're interested contact Michael Popovich (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu) for
further information.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Associate Club and RPGA Director
Author: (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   One thing which you may not be aware of is that IRPS is an RPGA sponsored
club.  We can participate in any of their events in any district of the world.
Membership is RPGA is not a requirement for this officership.  Also, this 
director will handle communications between our associate gaming clubs.  If
you're interested contact Michael Popovich (mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu) for
further information.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Wanted: Authors
Author: (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     IRPS is still looking for new authors.  We have limited space in the
Monthly columns left, but we still have lots of room for Role-playing Aids
and Fiction.  Note that these can be monthly as well if you desire to do an
ongoing story or a section on magical items etc.
     If you would like to write for us please mail me, and I can send you the
guidelines.  Note that they must be followed and submissions that do not make
them will be returned.  Particularly we are looking for people who would like
to submit magical items, new monsters, or new spells in order to fill out our
RPG Aids column.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Paranoia meets Call of Cthulhu
Author: http://www.muohio.edu/~marquajd/paracoc.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you've ever played both, either, or neither of these games, it won't matter,
the greatest adventure for Friend Computer's Troubleshooters awaits! It's
"Call of Computer", a Paranoia / Call of Cthulhu crossover!

Picture this:  There is an evil force emenating from the Pacific Ocean, and
it's taking over those whose minds are easy to manipulate... and who fits in
that category?

Alpha Complex's Troubleshooters of course!

Your Troubleshooting team is sent out by Briefing Officer Hast-U-RRR to battle
a new and evil secret society brewing in the underbelly of Alpha Complex.  Join
or be Troubleshooters Henry-R-MTG, Pow-R-NGR, Pete-R-VKM, Eld-R-SGN,
Lovec-R-AFT, and Gibb-R-ING (and alternate players Muld-R-FOX and Goze-R-IAN)
in their finest hour, saving Alpha Complex from the evil, Commie machinations
of this sinister new cult.

Visit HPL Production Logistics and Comissary for equipment distribution.

See the incredible new R&D Devices like the Ultra-Cool Transdimensional Rift
Assensing Polarizer, the B.A.Chi Clone Insertion System, and The ultimate
surprise...  Mark IX (Yes, Mark 9...  it took 5 more tries to get it right).
Battle evil commies, defeat the mutant monsters, and save Alpha Complex and
the world!

Ia, Ia Shub Nigg-U-RTH, Infrared high Programmer of Alpha
Complex with a Thousand Clones!

NOTE:
*THIS IS NOT A PBEM, IT IS AN ACTUAL, DOWNLOADABLE ADVENTURE FOR PARANOIA!!!!*

You can download an adventure for Paranoia, 5th Edition at

http://www.muohio.edu/~marquajd/paracoc.html

***FOR FREE***
And sign the guest book while you're there.

"Call of Computer" is copyright 1996, Joshua Marquart,
Paranoia is a Copyright and product of West End Games and has been used without
permission.  Call of Cthulhu is a Copyright and product of Chaosium Games and
has been used without permission.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Seeking Roleplayers
Author: (Zeitegeist@aol.com) or (X Aria X@aol.com)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Seeking Role Players; Fantasy
Imagination
Looking for people for discussion and input.

If Interested Contact:

Zeitegeist@aol.com
     or
X Aria X@aol.com

My friend and I are trying to start a new role playing company.  It is going
to feature a number of services, including game coverage, fiction, reviews and
information of subjects relating to gaming as well as non-gaming areas.  We
are also currently working on a line of role playing games which I am not sure
when they will be done.  We are looking for people to discuss things with,
looking for ideas and information from the gaming community at large.  We just
want to know what it is people are looking for in games and services these
days.  If interested in talking to us, please contact us at the e-mail 
addresses above.

Have fun and dream on:
Zeitgeist and Aria

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Inquiries and all submissions can be sent to Karen Mizeri at
(kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
Editing:
        Karen Mizeri  (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca)
             - Bryan E. Manahan
             - Anthony Scalzitti
             - Jason Englisch
Layout/Design:
        Jenn Millington (jimjen@interlog.com) 
             - Lawrence Marz  
             - Steve Edwards 
             - Meera Barry  
HTML:
        Pete Calvert (pcalvert@economics.adelaide.edu.au) 
             - Mikko Eley 
Graphics:
        Kosala Ubayasekara (d96-kub@nada.kth.se)
             - Aries J. Galindo

Research: Andrew Henry (AHenry7261@aol.com)
Writer's Assistant : Eugene Tillery (ewulf@dbtech.net)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Publication Guidelines

Articles:
 - All articles must be submitted in ASCII.  Lines are 80 characters.
 - Absolutely no foul language.
 - Articles must be spell checked, and have an understandable format.
 - Articles must meet basic grammar requirements.
 - We accept articles in English only.
 - ARTICLES MUST MEET ALL COPYRIGHT/TRADEMARK LAWS.  This is very, very
   important.  The larger companies are starting to crack down.  IRPS cannot
   afford to be held responsible for copyright/trademark breach.  Questionable
   articles will be refused unless the author can prove they meet these laws.
 - Original submissions only please.  We do not reprint.
 - We reserve the right to not to publish everything we receive.
 - We accept role playing aids, fiction, poetry, articles on issues effecting
   the gaming world, reviews, and classified advertisements.
 - Submission deadline is the 15th of the month.
 - IRPS does not accept any material that could be deemed as pornographic.
 - Please do not use < and > in characters in your writing.
 - Do not use trademarked names in your writing.  If you must - credit them
   appropriately.
 - There is a size limit of 5000 words.  That is approximately ten pages.
 - Clearly state which section of the magazine you are submitting to.  The
   sections are: Role playing aids, Monthly Columns, Classifieds, and
   Fiction.  If you want a monthly column you must request it.
 - These guidelines may change from time to time, we reserve the right to add
   and revise as we see fit.
 

 Articles are submitted to (kmizeri@pris.bc.ca).  Any articles not 
meeting these guidelines will be returned for revision.

----------------------
Graphics:
 All submissions of graphics can be directed to Kosala Ubayasekara  at
 (d96-kub@nada.kth.se).  

 - Maximum filesize for each artwork submitted is 50K
 - The artwork should be preferable already in .gif or .jpeg format. You
   can send them in other formats also, if you have trouble converting
   them. However all artwork included in the mag will be converted to .gif or
  .jpeg format, if not already in that state. 
 - Send copies of your work, not originals.
 - Include a name for the artwork. Include also the artists name, and email
   address if applicable.
 - IRPS does not accept any material that is overly graphic or pornographic in
   nature.
 - We reserve the right not to publish all submissions.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE RPG TIMES is published as an information and entertainment service to
members of the Internet Role Playing Society. Descriptions of, or references to,
products or publications within this publication do not imply endorsement of
that product or publication by IRPS.

IRPS makes no warranty of any kind with respect to the subject matter included
herein, the game systems listed herein, or the completeness or accuracy of this
publication.  IRPS specifically disclaims all warranties, express, implied or
otherwise, including without limitation, all warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular system.

IRPS acknowledges that all copyrights remain the sole property of the author.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



