IRPS NEWSLETTER 
May 1, 1996
Issue #5

Table of Contents:
Club Status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>)

IRPS Monthly Newsletters
   What We Can Learn From AD&D (John Perch <shavenyak3@aol.com>)
   New AD&D Monsters (Jonathan Thomas <angiejt@erols.com>)
   DM's Advice - 1st Article (Earl Harrison <dungeonm@si-net.com>)
   DM's Advice - 2nd Article (Earl Harrison <dungeonm@si-net.com>)
   Tales of Phantasm (Anonymous)

IRPS Stories
   The Dungeon Delver (Than Lee Caroled <taverntales@iquest.net>)

Classifieds
   Greyhawk
   Earthdawn
   IRC Game
   Books For Sale

Gaming Conventions
   Darkcon

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Club Status Report (Michael Popovich <cad@digital.net>) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Hello Everyone.  I'm proud to say that our club has risen from 600 
members to about 800 members.  Soon we will start asking other internet 
based clubs, such as college clubs if they would like to exchange 
resources and information in order to benefit both of our members.
	IRPS has also been considering the possibility of holding a meeting 
on IRC (Internet Relay Chat), which is a program that allows multiple 
users to come together in a network and chat with each other.  All that's 
need to run an IRC program is an IRC Client, which can be downloaded from 
the Internet for free.  Please send me (cad@digital.net) your input about 
holding meetings through IRC or another medium.
	Also, in this ZIP file was a file called HERBS.TXT, which is also a 
monthly newsletter column (rather large that's why I couldn't incorporate 
it in to the main email).  But it's written by club member Shaun Hately 
(drednort@bud.swin.edu.au).
	IRPS would also like to thank Karen Mizeri (kmizeri@mail.awinc.com 
until May 15, after which time it will change to kmizeri@jetstream.net) 
who will now edit all of the IRPS newsletters.  She's currently an 
English major which makes her more than qualified for the position.  She 
may need some help on the editing, so if you're interested email her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
What We Can Learn From AD&D (John PeRich <shavenyak3@aol.com>) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Hello all!  This is my first time writing for the newsletter, as 
well as for ANY internet/web letter.  However, I'm no stranger to either 
role-playing games (10 years and counting) or writing (I can't think back 
that far).  So, I've decided to make my IRPS debut with this old piece 
that I had eating up disk space.
	From the title of this article, the first thing that might come to 
your minds is, "Ah, this is an article extoling the virtues of AD&D by 
saying how it develops imagination, vocabulary, teamwork, and basic 
arithmetic.  I think I'll skip down to something useful."  Trust me, I'm 
not that brite.  This article highlights the major errors of the AD&D 
system as a whole and how they can be resolved.  So, while this is still 
"what we can learn from AD&D", an appropriate subtitle might be "so we don't 
do it as well."

LEVELS
	The biggest and worst of them all.  Levels.  All characters in 
beginning level campaigns start out at Level 1.  Through the gaining of 
experience, they proceed all the way up to realms unknown.  Fun.
     	Now, a few problems arise from this.  Every fighter, for example, 
requires the same amount of experience to advance between Levels 1 and 2 
(this is ignoring high Prime Requisite bonuses and all).  What this leads 
one to assume is that: a) all fighters develop exactly the same skills at 
exactly the same time, and b) all fighters experience life in the same 
way.  Both of these assumptions are wrong.
     	A good example is Inigo Montoya in the book (or movie, though I'll 
be quoting the book) "The Princess Bride."  When Inigo's father is killed 
by the six-fingered count, Inigo goes out to train desperately in fencing 
to avenge him.  Ten years later he returns, and is declared by top there.  
You may be working on the same thing at the same time, but people will 
have different ideas about it, (it's called creativity!  Corporations 
survive off of it!) and will react to it differently.  If everyone at 
your job was identical, you'd have an assembly-line, not a think-tank. 
(Note: if you actually DO work on an assembly-line, this metaphor falls 
through, but you see my point.)  The class system has very few merits, as 
very few people fit into nice tight categories.

EXPERIENCE POINTS FOR MONSTERS
     	The general rules for AD&D are: when you kill a monster, you gain 
experience points.  The rulebooks put all sorts of disclaimers on this to 
keep it from being abused (must advance the plot, etc.), but these are 
tough to identify.  Slaying those suspicious-looking boars around the 
orcish camp can be justified, even if only for the XP a boar gives you.
     	This is probably AD&D's weakest point.  All of the hack-and-slash, 
combat-hungry, find-things-to-beat-up-then-kill-them-then-have-lunch 
mentalities connect directly to this.  Granted, the PC's are adventurers, 
but must adventuring always lead to killing?  Better still, does killing 
always help in adventuring?
     	Also, the level-system ties into this folly.  You gain some XP for 
killing an orc.  You are a thief.  Therefore, the logical conclusion is 
that slaying an orc helps your thieving skills.  The next time you get a 
lucky backstab on that lone guard, thank the orc you slew for giving you 
the XP you needed (P.S. This is what is called irony).  When you finally 
learn that "teleport" spell, thank all the orcs you've killed, despite 
the fact that slaughtering has little to do with the teleport spell.
     	Obviously, this system should probably be the first to go.  
Whenever I start up a new AD&D campaign, I tell the players of some 
house rules, one of which is the revised Experience Point system.  PC's 
get 1-5 XP's for each adventure.  These can be used to increase stats, 
get new proficiencies or even advance in level.  Of course, I don't use 
the PHB's same tables in this system.  If I get enough requests, I may 
send in the full Revised Experience Point System in another article.

HOW DO I KNOW THESE THINGS ARE ERRORS?
     	. . . you skeptics are asking.  Well, let me explain the one 
overwhelming point in my favor.  NO OTHER MAJOR, SUCCESSFUL ROLE-PLAYING 
SYSTEM USES ANY OF THOSE!!  None!  I've played AD&D, Shadowrun, Hero 
Games, GURPS and dozens of others.  Very few use those same systems, or 
in the same way, as AD&D does.  While they don't have the head start that 
AD&D did, they are still very popular, regardless  (Yes, I know there are 
some exceptions.  There are probably also some RPG's that do use those 
systems and are successful.  E-mail me and tell me how wrong I am.  Go 
ahead.  I enjoy abuse).  GURPS is my favorite example, as it is my 
favorite RPG outside of AD&D.  Every starting character gets 100 points 
to be used on characteristics, skills, special abilities and other fun 
stuff.  They can take disadvantages to make up point-deficits and add 
depth to their character.  Neither levels, nor classes, nor experience 
(for monsters) are used.  If you need to ask more about GURPS's success, 
give me a call and I'll buy a bottle of paint to decorate the rock that 
you live under.
	This article wasn't solely designed to bash AD&D.  Regardless of 
those, I still play AD&D regularly, and I still use (some of) those 
systems in my games.  However, recognizing their faults is the best way 
of correcting them and enhancing the quality of your campaign. (Oh, yeah, 
my e-mail address is shavenyak3@aol.com.  Gimme a buzz.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
New AD&D Monsters (Jonathan Thomas <angiejt@erols.com>) 
------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Manticoria

Climate/Terrain:  Any
AC:  5
Frequency:  Rare
Movement:  12/18(E)@6
Organization:  Pack
Hit Dice:  5+4
Activity Cycle:  Any
THACO:  15
Diet:  Carnivore
Number of Attacks:  4
Intelligence:  Average (8-11)
Damage per Attack:  1d3/1d3/1d8/1d4
Treasure:  D, I
Special Attacks:  Poison, Singing
Alignment:  Lawful Evil
Magic Resistance:  Standard
Number Appearing:  2d4
Size:  L (10’ long)
Experience Point Value:  1400
Morale:  Elite (13-14)

	Much like the manticore, the manticoria appears to be a huge, 
winged lion with a human face.  They have gigantic raven like wings, 
usually in black or grey.  Their faces are heavy browed and jawed, 
hairless, and tend to be reddish or purplish.  Only male Manticoria have 
manes, which are generally black; the females have a ridge of black hair 
starting between the shoulder blades and running up the neck and head to 
where the hairline would be on a human.  Older males tend to lose the 
part of their manes which cover the crown of their heads.  Manticoria 
have the tails of giant scorpions, bluish black in color.  They have 
teeth much like any carnivorous mammal, except for the fact they sport 
three rows.
	Manticoria have high pitched piping voices, and occasionally growl 
and roar in a very lion like way.
	Manticoria are somewhat smaller than Manticores.  Adults tend to be 
about 10’ long, about 5’ at the shoulder, and have a wingspan of 18 or 20 
feet.  Females are only slightly smaller.

Combat:   
	Manticoria hunt in packs and they are intelligent enough to 
coordinate their actions.  They have amazing control of their voices, and 
can  cause them to appear to be coming from up to 30’ away.  Also, female 
manticoria can sing, which has the dual effects of making it very hard to 
concentrate and very difficult to estimate the number of manticoria that 
are not in view.  In game terms, this means that an immediate morale 
check is called for at -2.  Anyone trying to do anything requiring 
concentration (cast or maintain a spell or use psionics) must make a 
saving throw vs. spell to be successful.
	Manticoria tails carry type F poison (save or die in one round) and 
can strike in front of the monster.  They are affected by their own 
poison.  Tail attacks can be directed at a different target than the 
claw/claw/bite routine is directed at.  While flying they can use their 
tails and claws against opponents on the ground, not their bite. 
	Manticoria are excellent trackers (Base 16, modifiers relating only 
to scent apply) and will follow prey until they catch it.  Fortunately, 
they are also noisy, and prey will know their trail has been scented from 
miles away under good conditions.  They are not usually inclined to quiet 
down until the trail becomes very fresh or the prey is in sight, 
approximately 100 yards.

Habitat/Society:  
	Manticoria can be found in any land, but prefer temperate forested 
hills and other temperate to subtropical areas that offer some long range 
concealment.  Some are partial to jungles.  Manticoria are pack hunters 
with huge territories, often 20 miles or more in radius from their lairs.  
Once a pack has a scent, the only easy way to throw them off is to leave 
their territory and keep going.  Manticoria will track prey outside their 
territories, but check their morale hourly with modifying it by -1 
cumulatively for every hour.  This modifier is also applied to any morale 
check they make outside their territories. (For example, a pack tracks 
the party to the edge of their territory and beyond.  If they catch up 
with the party 3 hours after leaving their territory, they are -3 on any 
morale checks.)
	Manticoria Packs consist of a dominant male and female, subordinate 
adults, and the pups of the dominant pair.  Pups take two years to 
mature. They are neither venomous nor airborne the first year, and have: 
2+1 hit dice, a THACO of 19, do 1 point of damage with  tails and claws, 
and 1d4 with their bites.  During the second year pups: earn their wings, 
become poisonous at +4 on the save, have 4+2 hit dice, THACO of 17, do 
1d2 with their claws, 1d3 with their tails and 1d6 with their bite.  If 
two are encountered it will be a mated pair, the third through sixth will 
be pups (d4 for each for growth: 1=new born, 2=1st year, 3=2nd year, 
4=grown), and any others will be adults with lower hit points than the 
mated pair.
	Manticoria typically pick the highest point in their territories in 
which to lair, then either find a cave near it or dig a hole in which to 
sleep.  These areas may be buttes, hill tops, or gigantic trees.  Those 
living in trees may forgo digging a hollow if mating season is not near, 
but always give birth in a sheltered area.  They are slow, but even the 
pups are sure climbers.
	Treasure is gathered to line the lair and to bribe powerful 
monsters to leave their territories.  It is generally Types D&I:

1d6K cp 10%			
1d6C(30%)+1d6C(15%) ep or pp 1d10K sp 15%		
2d6(55%)+1d10(30%) gems
1d3K gp 50%			
2d4(50%)+1d6(25%) art
Any 3 Magic + 1 potion (15%)

	Manticoria can and will use any magic item they can without hands.
	Manticoria have a god which they worship.  This god is a Sidhe, a 
member of an extinct race raised to divinity, and will be described fully 
as whim allows.  They can become shamans reaching 5th level, but this rarely happens.
	These creatures generally occupy the top of the food chain in their 
area.

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
DM's Advice - 1st Article (Earl Harrison <dungeonm@si-net.com>) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	"THERE!" exclaims the over joyous thief, Timothy.  "There just 
above the cliff three-quarters up to the left." "That is what we are 
looking for!"
	The thief latched onto the back of the broad barbarian as he began 
to climb the rock face of the mountain.  The barbarian did not seem at 
all encumbered by the weight of the halfling as he made great leaps and 
bounds up the mountain.
	After many hours of climbing the barbarian hurled the thief onto 
the ledger just facing the lair of the dragon.  Borg finally climbed over 
the edge, then stood and brushed himself off onto the now dust-free 
thief.  So once again Timothy dusted himself off, all the while snarling 
and cursing at the bigger man.
	Swiftly and quietly a large two-handed broad sword is lifted out of 
its resting place to gleam brightly in the sun. Two small daggers, both 
dull, are pulled from unknown hiding places on the body of the halfling 
thief.  
	"Let’s Go" commands the barbarian.
	As they enter the cave the stench becomes almost unbearable.  After 
several more minutes of traveling into the cave, the barbarian begins 
feeling the walls to find his way when light appears from a gem that the 
halfling has clutched in his tiny little hands. 	
	"Humans!" exclaims the thief in a very disgruntled voice, as out 
from the earth jumps a very large creature.  He gazes upon the two heroes 
with no effect.  A few claw and pincer attacks and the creature must now 
defend himself.  Three swift and powerful strokes of the sword and the 
Umber Hulk lays at the feet of the powerful barbarian. 
	"HA!" laughs Borg as he lifts the corpse into the air and throws 
it into the hole it had created to get the surprise on the two 
scavengers.  A few more twists and turns and just yards in front of the 
two are more riches and treasures than they could ever hope to carry from 
this place.
	"THUD!" a huge red claw comes crashing down just inches from the 
thief who had been trying to sneak into the chamber and slip off with a 
few goodies before the real action began.	Borg leaps into the air, turns 
his ring and the confidence swells in him.  A few well placed sword hits 
and the dragon rocks back onto its hind quarters.  The thief jumps into 
the fray only to miss his first attack and the other dagger goes flying 
off into the darkness of the cave.
	The dragon rears back and belches forth a great blast of fire.  
Borg laughs it off and then jumps into the dragon’s face for another 
three strong strokes with the broad sword.  After the second hit the 
dragon attempts a getaway, but the third and final attack strikes true 
and the dragon slumps to its death.  Our heroes have defeated the great 
wyrm.
	"Timothy!" Borg cries into the darkness. "You can come out of your 
hiding place!"
	There is no answer.  For several moments the barbarian searches 
for his tiny friend. He finds his friend burnt beyond recognition.  He 
had taken the full blast from the dragon’s breath weapon and was not as 
lucky as the powerful barbarian.

	The above scenario could be played out on any given Saturday at any 
DM’s home, except one -  MINE!  If you would like to know how to scare 
your players and have them packing their books, grabbing their dice, and 
heading for the door with the mere mention of the word 'dragon' - then 
read on.
	The average great wyrm has lived for over 750 years and destroyed 
countless treasure raiders, how else do you think they get all of their 
wealth, villages and castles in their days?  How many players do you know 
that can boast about these things?  Not many!  Therefore a dragon should 
have countless more powers and hit points than the players do.  If played 
"by the book" then the Umber Hulk at the beginning of our little 
adventure could have a good shot at the dragon.  But upon consideration 
by myself and my group, we decided that by adding two zeros to the end 
of the dragon’s hit dice the creature now becomes the opponent that you 
have only heard about in fantasy books and legends.  I know some of you 
out there are saying, "If you would play the dragon correctly then you 
would not have to do that."  Okay, let’s examine this. Let’s take the 
following character against any 15 HD dragon that you have lying around 
in your campaign.

BORG: level 15 barbarian with a CON of 18.  That equals 180 HP plus the 
4 HP that he gets for the high constitution, which equals a grand total 
of 240 HP.  Also give our hero an 18/00 STR, that gives him a +3 to hit 
and +7 damage. We can’t forget the +4 chain armor and the ring of fire 
resistance.  Oh, and don’t forget the +5 two-handed broad sword.
	Now your little dragon has a very powerful enemy to fight.  
According to the Monster Manual you roll an 8-sided die to figure HP for 
a monster.  With this in mind our 15 HD dragon can only have 120 HP when 
the dragon belches his breath weapon the most HP that Borg could take 
would be 60, remember the ring.  If the saving throw is made then that 
number is now 30.  Not a very powerful attack from such a noble creature.
	Consider the hero and the damage that he can dish out.  Three 
attacks with a broad sword at 3d6+12, which comes out to about 30 
HP/shot. Now combine the other two attacks for a total of 90 HP of 
damage for the lowly humanoid the dragon despises so much.
	Next round the breath weapon is now only 30 hit points of damage at 
the MAXIMUM!  Borg makes his saving throw and he only takes 7 HPD! OUCH 
HURT ME!  Borg attacks again and the maid is cleaning up the mess.
	My little idea no longer looks so dumb.  Even calculating the 
dragon’s HP and adding one zero to that still makes the dragon a very 
powerful opponent.  The dragon is the heart and soul of the game, hence 
the name.  Where there are evil dragons there are good ones. The same 
rule applies to these as well.  To make them even more powerful seek out 
the handbook "Dragonomicon."  The dragon spells alone are worth the 
price of the book.  One of the spells "Death’s Door", when walked 
through by player characters, drains 50 levels before it becomes 
inactive..  Try attacking the dragon now after your 20th level 
characters are now all 6th and 7th level.
	Dragons can be very powerful allies, or they can be very powerful 
enemies.  It is all in the way the DM plays them, and the way the players 
treat them.  It is up to your group to decide how to handle them.  The 
next time you throw a dragon at your players, give my idea a try and see 
if the outcome is a bit different than the players had planed.
	Next time I will come down to earth a bit and tell you how to 
chase 10th level characters out of the kobold lair.

Please send any comments, questions or even answers to

					dungeonm@si-net.com

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
DM's Advice - 2nd Article (Earl Harrison <dungeonm@si-net.com>) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	Consider your average 8th level party of no more than 6 characters, 
and send them into the cave of one, two, or maybe even 3 clans of 
kobolds; and witness the outcome.    The fighter standing tall at the 
head of the party swinging his trusty sword as if cutting down weeds at 
his farm house back at the village.  The thief sneaking around to get the 
surprise and backstab, and then sneaking off again to attack yet another 
hapless kobold.  The mage at the back of the party casting his spells and 
destroying countless kobolds with the wave of his hand. The priest is 
merely reclining and twiddling his thumbs because he knows that these 
lowly kobolds will never in a thousand years - not even if the fighter 
was asleep - hit him with their crude weapons. The archer is half-way 
between the fighter and the mage, flipping arrows off of his bow and 
striking a kobold with each one.  The kobolds, after several rounds, will 
either be dead or they will be running for their lives. 
	The party will no doubt give chase and eventually corner the 
cowering little kobolds at the end of their lair and finish the job, with 
the priest standing outside the door. What little treasure the kobolds 
have can now be tallied and split amongst the party members. 
	The thief was never seen by the kobolds. The mage and cleric were 
seen but they were never challenged, and the archer was also behind the 
fighter. If this sounds like your typical kobold slaughter, read on and 
challenge the 8th level party the next time they enter the lair of the 
dreadful kobolds!
    	Firstly, caves and kobold lairs are dark. Who was holding the 
torch in the above example?  The priest?  Not likely!  If no one was 
holding a torch, then everyone had infravision, right?  Wrong!  Not the 
human characters, there could not have been any of them in that fight. 
Secondly, kobolds would not cut out a cave that was big enough for a 
human or elf sized character to come wandering into. They would carve out 
a cave that was just right for them.  This means that the elves and humans 
were at a -4 AC and to hit! That makes for easier targets for the 
kobolds, and harder targets to hit, since the humans and elves can no 
longer use big weapons such as long bows or long swords. How about them 
daggers boys!  Did anyone check for those secret doors with the kobolds 
hiding in them that are behind the mage and priest?  Won't they be 
surprised when 10-25 kobolds jump out from behind them and hit their 
measly 7 AC's and disrupt their spells.  Did anyone check to see that 
there were 20 more kobolds just around the corner when the others went 
flying around it?  Now the kobalds automatically get to attack first at 
the party of running characters.  
	So their AC's are not what they were a few minutes ago.  The 
kobolds have the surprise attack and the characters do not get to use 
their dexterity adjustment because they are battle ready.
   	Kobolds some times train dire wolves to be used as mounts and guard 
dogs. Keeping in mind that the humans are bent over using daggers and 
blind,  how are these guys going to fare against a few dire wolves 
jumping onto them?  Can you imagine the pain of bouncing your head on 
the rock ceiling above, the wolf jumping for your throat and attacking 
with only a dagger?  Shamans are another useful weapon for the kobold. 
You do not have to use him for offensive spells, use them for the 
healing and defensive spells.  Invisible kobolds waiting around the 
corner, letting the party walk by and then attacking from behind, only 
to go around the corner again and wait for the party to continue on down 
the corridor only to attack them with another barrage of arrows... sounds 
fun! 
	That little incident could go on for the remainder of the game.  
How about murder holes on the sides of the walls?  The women and 
children could make this attack with little coming back their way.  Not 
to mention the possibility of murder holes on the ceiling of a two-level 
or three-level lair.  Hot water from above and hot steamy metal spears in 
the bottoms of leather bound feet.  Pit traps and snares in the bigger 
chambers work wonders for the characters that are only watching for 
kobolds to jump out of nowhere to attack them. Once upside down in the 
snare trap, you are spear food.  
	Falling into a pit can be big trouble for the party as well. 
Spears stabbing down at you, rocks being thrown at you, and the dire 
wolves bitting fingertips as the hapless characters try to climb out of 
the pit.  We could also put some murder holes in the bottom of the pit 
with all of the above going on! If not the murder holes how about very 
soft mud, or quick sand, to get the party stuck, no more dexterity bonus 
for their AC!  Now you have spears, rocks, murder holes and mud to 
contend with all at the same time.  Do I hear the word surrender coming 
from the 8th level characters?
  	Kobolds like to carve out labyrinths so as to be able to run around 
behind the party and attack from behind.  Not to mention the secret doors 
everywhere.  Kobolds won't all go down the same corridor. They will split 
up into two or more groups and go down different corridors, so the party 
will have to split up if they want to kill all of the them before they 
are able to get help.  Imagine the possibilities of ten kobolds 
encountering three separate corridors and three going down each, one 
getting another ten from each corridor.  The party is now split up and 
they are the ones running for their lives.
    	Kobolds are very nasty creatures.  When they are done with 
something they just pitch it into the trash and leave it there.  This 
means anything that they are done with, old barrels, boxes, crates, 
wagons, the like.  What if the kobolds built a maze through this junk 
and then lead the party into this little maze?  The kobold would have to 
crawl through this, what is the bigger foe going to have to do to get 
through this to kill the measly kobold?  The tide has turned in favor of 
the kobold.  He can climb through this maze and get a good attack or two 
on the characters before they can get their bearings and see where the 
attack came from.  By the time the characters figure out where the kobold 
is, he has already moved into another spot and attacked the characters 
again.  A couple of rounds of this is all the kobolds need to frustrate 
the characters and make them want to chase them even more, only to be 
lead into more and more traps devised by the clever DM.  Trip wires into 
a pit.  A barrel of oil with a hole in it rolling down the corridor at 
the characters and a kobold with a torch at the top smiling makes the 
characters want to run.  Kobolds love to drill holes in bare walls just 
big enough for them to get through so when  human chases him he leads 
the character down to this 16" hole in the wall and escapes.  Coming 
after the human out of a secret door are fifteen more kobolds with 
flaming arrows. 
	The kobolds could even eventually lead the party back out of their 
cave, where the party may take the hint and leave. Who is to say that the 
forest around this new entrance is not trapped as much as the lair was?
   	An underground bear's lair with a pit trap over it makes for an 
interesting encounter. A whole new crop of monsters could be on this 
side of the lair waiting for the kobolds to come out, only to see a bunch 
of humans and elves exit the lair. Most creatures that live in caves find 
humans and elves to be quite delicious.  The party will not have much of 
a fight left in them if the kobold lair is set up like the above 
examples, and they just might be easy pickins' for the right group of 
monsters to fight.
   	Kobolds are as bright as the average common farmer or city dweller 
and they should be played as such.  They should have access to fire, oil 
and poisons just as easily as the characters have.  They should never be 
used as flies waiting for the fly swatter to come along, to kill them 
just for the experience points and treasure that they hold.  Give them a 
fighting chance against any level of characters. Challenge even the high 
level parties with these guys and maybe they won't try the goblins and 
orcs!  Most players will thank you for a job well done.  Some players 
might want to go back in the lair only to find out the kobolds have 
healed themselves and reset all of their traps.  
	Maybe the party has been through only half of the lair and the 
kobolds will lead them through the other half this time.  The party may 
get lost in the lair and never be able to find their way out.  The 
kobolds would keep track of them and keep picking on them until they 
surrendered or the characters were all killed.  Who was mapping the lair 
anyway?
  	Kobolds can also be used as scouts for any city that would have 
them, if paid the right amount of silver and electrum.  Kobolds are 
happy to take these coins from the city and the gypsy caravans travelling 
the roadways, asking for directions only the kobolds could give them. 
They will be loyal trusting servants for the city if treated well.  They 
could tell the city where the next goblin or orc raid was coming from, as 
well as any other creature that might want to attack the city.  Open 
field fights are not suited for kobolds because then they are flies for 
the swatting.  They can be used in the battlements and attack wagons 
that are used by the armies for the protection of the city.  They could 
also be used as bait for the attacking armies to be lead into the waiting 
arms of the protecting armies of the city. The city may not care if a few 
kobolds were taken out by the raiding armies.  The city could convince 
them they were getting revenge for the losses they have suffered.
   	As you can see kobolds may be just 1 HD creatures with 1-4 HP but 
they do not have to be played like that.  They are far from just the easy 
slaughtering that some gamers like to do on a Saturday morning.  Give the 
party a challenge the next time they adventure into your kobold lair. 
	You don't even have to tell them they are going to fight kobolds. 
Let them figure it out and watch the fun begin when they are driven out 
of the lair of the lowly kobold!

                           Until next time,
                                    Earl Harrison

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Tales of Phantasia (Anonymous)
------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Fellow RPG gamers,
      	This is the 1996 Tales of Phantasia American petition.  Are 
you angry when you see an awesome RPG come out in Japan, sell millions of 
copies, get acclaimed as one of the best role playing games ever, and 
then never come out in America?  THIS IS WRONG!  Well, Japan is going to 
do it to us again.  In December of 1995, Namco released Tales of 
Phantasia for the Super Famicom.  This masterpiece was animated by one of 
Japan's most well-known and famous animators, Kosuke Fujishima.  This 
game also features an opening sequence with a recorded theme song and 
vocals!  REAL singing and talking are used during this game!  Tales has 
been acclaimed for it's incredibly in-depth story line (taking up 48 megs 
of memory, the biggest ever!) , it's lush, beautiful, detailed graphics, 
and magnificent soundtrack.  This isn't just another RPG.  THIS IS THE 
ULTIMATE ROLE PLAYING GAME!!!  
	Yet, there are no plans to release Tales of Phantasia in America.  
Wrong?  Unjust?  I think so!!  Don't we Americans deserve the very best 
RPG's?  Don't you want to be enjoying this masterpiece in your home on 
your Super Nintendo?
    	Namco is trying to decide whether or not to release Tales of 
Phantasia in America.  Let's show them that we want it!  If we can 
persuade Namco that there is a demand in America, they will release it 
here!  If enough replies are made to this petition, we will also send it 
to Namco of Japan!  If this petition is successful, it will serve as a 
wake up call to all other RPG companies telling them, "WE WANT ROLE 
PLAYING GAMES IN AMERICA!"
        We must band together and demand what we want!  We must make 
ourselves heard!  Do you want the video game companies in Japan saying, 
"Americans are too lazy and stupid to understand this role playing game, 
let's give them some more action games!"  I'm sure you don't!  Together 
we can make a difference!
        If you feel strongly about the release of Tales of Phantasia in 
America, let Namco know!  Please take some time to reply.  All e-mails 
will be passed directly to Namco of America, and if enough replies come 
in, Namco of Japan.  Just take a couple of minutes to tell Namco that YOU 
WANT TALES OF PHANTASIA IN AMERICA!
	Your reward could be one of the best role playing games ever.

        E-MAIL ALL REPLIES TO: OHKI82@aol.com.  THESE GO STRAIGHT TO 
NAMCO.  TELL THEM WHAT YOU FEEL!

        LET'S LET NINTENDO KNOW TOO!  E-MAIL THEM AT: 
NOAPulse@Nintendo.com

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Warring In FRPG's - Part One (Dana Drury <dana@zipper.zip.com.au>) 
------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Note: This article is generally aimed towards DM's of games such as 
Palladiums RPG and AD&D.  However, aspects can apply elsewhere as well as 
provide useful information for players.

	Over this serial I hope to provide some useful information on the 
Art of War, (although not exactly up to Sun Tzu's standards) and using it 
in FRPG's.    

	One aspect I see often overlooked in most Fantasy Role Playing 
campaigns is war and its effects and benefits it brings upon the general 
populace. Benefits?  How can death and destruction bring benefits?  
Well, in the campaign terms it can't usually, however it can provide a 
hook or two for an adventure, open up new territories and shut off 
others. 
	War is always present, as a DM myself I used to throwing in the odd 
rumor of war, details of a war, or the after affects of a war.  It wasn't 
until recently I discovered running a war with players involved can be 
time consuming and change the campaign completely.
	Sensible Software may have said "War is Fun" but sadly this isn't 
ways the case. If you wish to start a war in the campaign (this also 
applies to players) make sure you know what your getting into. Here are 
some things to take into consideration (there is probably more).

Does your campaign need it? are the players having fun or do you need a 
new way to wake up your players? 

	Some campaigns are more suited than others to a war.  There is 
little chance of a war happening in the middle of the Forgotten Realms 
(although it could be interesting), and Krynn is exhausted from years of 
war.  Mystara however is ripe for war, as is Planescape which allows for 
anything and everything; while in Ravenloft is almost impossible due to 
the problems in the world.  And finally Birthright is all about war.  
Others, such as Palladiums RPG have left the Timro Kingdom open to attack 
from Ogres. Many of the books supplied with AD&D boxed sets or Palladium 
Source Books give indications of rising tension in areas, or wars already 
waging.
	
How Big will the war be?

	This is a fairly important question to ask yourself.  Small wars 
are easy to run, are not so messy, and don't have the potential to scar 
a campaign. However, they can provide limited adventures and even allow 
for players to command troops. Small wars tend to involve the characters 
more because they usually have status and are respected. If this is not 
the case a Baron/Lord/Lady sure could do with some 4th Level adventurers 
on his/her side. 
	Big Wars will be costly, not only on the world but the DM running 
it.  Larger wars can limit the players involvement, but this doesn't 
have to be the case. Unless the players are high level they won't be 
running around with an Army under their belts. Kings and Queens or 
Commanders may assign them to more pressing tasks such as Sabotage, 
Spying, or Scouting (the three S's).  Assassination could prove to be an 
interesting task for the players. Maybe the enemy could do more damage if 
there were another commander leading. Such things can be used in smaller 
wars to great effect but large wars can range across varied terrain and 
places, some of which the Army knows nothing of.
  
Thus concludes the First part of this series.  In the next part I shall 
shed more light on planning out a war. If there is enough interest I 
would be happy to build up a profile adventure which you could use or 
modify. If anyone has anything to add: preference, place for the profile, 
or questions; feel free to e-mail me at dana@zipper.zip.com.au.

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The Dungeon Delver (Nathan Lee Caroland <taverntales@iquest.net>) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

 	The night comes upon you swiftly as you walk towards your 
destination, the Dungeons of Kergoth.  Continuing past the farms where 
hard faced men stare and brutal sounding dogs bark, you see a tavern up 
ahead; the lights casting gloom to the surrounding tree's, sounds of 
talking and singing coming from inside.  "Aye this is the place" you say 
to yourself.  Six more hours from here to the Dungeon's.  With a proud 
swagger you enter the tavern.	
	Once inside, you see the tavern is well stocked with patrons 
sitting around swilling ale and passing stories amongst themselves.  The 
tavern is well kept, with blackwood tables and chairs and a blazing 
hearth large enough to roast a whole Ox.  Hustling between tables you 
see several wenches serving, one smiles at you as she saunters by.  
Behind the black bar is a large man, a scant vest upon his frame, his 
bare arms and chest showing many puckered scars.  One such scar runs the 
side of his face, his grizzled salt and pepper beard bare where it 
passes.  You see a wry smile cross the man's features as he suddenly 
booms in a deafening voice:
	 "Aha, seems we have another adventurer, and a young one at that!" 
	Looking, you see all appraising you, some moodily stare, others 
laugh and offer up a smile, raising their tankards to you in silent 
salute. 
	"To the Dungeon's are ye?"  At your hesitant nod he bellows again. 
"Well then, come and have a drink. The first is upon the house", and 
reaching under the bar he brings up a foaming tankard.  Smiling you walk 
forward and place yourself at the bar, sipping at the heady brew, idly 
wondering about the barkeep and his scars.  With a start you notice that 
he is looking at you, "I see your interested in these here scars are ye?"  
Not waiting for an answer, he pulls back his vest and you see that his 
torso is literally traced with scars. "Each is a story and all of em I 
got in that dammed dungeon. Believe me, their stories are such that you 
do not want to experience for yourself."  At that you firm your chin 
while you put your hand upon your weapon.
	"I can take care of myself". 
	The man begins laughing, "Aye maybe ye can then! I myself was about 
your age when I made my first run into those dungeons, maybe you will 
live if you keep your thoughts in place and your arm strong. Well then, 
since your so bent on going you might be wantin to take a look at me 
books before ye go eh? They tells ya of all sorts of things, from magic 
to creatures and all of it good to know about iffin you run into to 
something in there ... and ye will".  As if seeing your thought he adds 
"Now I got this scar here," at that he points at a puckered red scar that 
travels his chest," gettin out with these books.  It'll cost ye 5 silver 
to have a look at em."  With that he smiles, "After all, this really did 
hurt ...."
	With your half tankard of Norish ale you sit in the overstuffed 
black chair, it seems the barkeep has a penchant for black.  The grizzled 
man has something about him that makes him a very agreeable person; 
either way you're glad your luck has brought you the chance to view these 
tomes, even if it cost you five out of the ten silver that you owned.  It 
would be worth it if you did run into something in those dungeons.  The 
shuffling of feet announces the man's return as he kicks open the door, 
his arms heavily laden with five large expensively bound and worn tomes. 
With a huff he sets the books on a table across from you. 
	"Not as strong or as young as I used to be" he says, laughing as if 
at some great joke, "though I can live with it."  Again he laughs.  With 
a smile you get up to examine the stacked tomes.  Each is capped with 
gold or silver and bound in precisely tooled hide, one such is bound in 
a pale skin with a skull worked into the hide. "Human" the man utters 
beside you. 
	"Excuse me sir?" you ask. 
	"Human skin, that's what that books bound in.  A sage informed me a 
few years back when he stopped to have a look at these here.  This one 
caught his attention right away and he began to mutter and wave his hands 
about, then pronounced that this tome was bound in human skin and worked 
with the suffering of others."  Chuckling dryly he concludes, "I've never 
been comfortable with it since then. Damn me for being fickle but what if 
it were me own skin adornin some damn book?"  nodding numbly you continue 
to stare at the books, "Well have a look at em, I'll leave ye to your 
reading and bring ye another tankard back in a little.  Take as much time 
as ye wish, I urge ye to learn all ye can.  I got them there in the 
Dungeons of Kergoth and I can tell ye that some of that stuff is actually 
down there, though most of the dungeon has been picked clean after all 
these years if ye ask me, but ye never know."  With that he leaves, 
closing the door solidly behind him.  Sitting once more you moodily look 
at the books, drinking from your tankard again before resolutely 
retrieving a brown covered book with a triangular symbol within a circle 
emblazoned upon the cover.  Opening the book you see that it deals with 
ceremonies and worshipping of devils and elements, and how to appease and 
acquire their favor.  With a vile oath you set the evil book aside and 
empty your tankard.  Perhaps the dungeons had denizens that worshipped 
such evil and false creatures.  It was something to consider about if so.  
Looking over the books you hesitantly reach for the pale, skull tooled 
tome.  Opening it you begin to search through the pages, each filled with 
clear print and astonishingly lifelike pictures. "Yes this one will tell 
me much ..."
	Moodily, you set the last book down.  The books, although full of 
useful knowledge about creatures, magic, and other oddities; were also 
vile in their content.  The writers of these books were either very 
depraved individuals or insane beyond wonder. Either way the information, 
if it proved true, would be a boon to you when in a situation that called 
for decisive knowledge.  Strangely you notice you have three empty 
tankards at your side, you don't remember receiving or drinking them.  
Standing, you stretch the kinks out of your back and legs.  The chair - 
though comfortable looking - had the stuffing shifted in the most 
uncomfortable way.  Opening the door you walk back down the hallway to 
the tavern room, noticing it is well into the night and there are no 
patrons left.  The barkeep is busily sifting new sawdust to the floor, 
the old removed after the heavier drinkers were done for the night. 
Yawning he turns toward you:
	 "Find anything interesting within those pages?" 
	Slightly nodding in a sleepy voice you answer, "Aye that I did good 
barkeep, that I did. Though full of useful knowledge, those books leave 
one feeling unwashed and sick, I think they were written by evil men."  
With a grin he responds, "Evil he was, but no longer.  I slew him twelve 
winters ago when I found him in those dungeons, a cult leader who lead 
raids to our town and used townsfolk in sacrifices. Me and others hunted 
him down, I took his books to see what he had.  Wicked and evil he is and 
the books tainted by him, but I has to admit that he was a lodestone of 
knowledge and them books and their writtins have actually helped me out 
of a spot when I met up with a big brute of a thing in the swamps over 
thata ways."  Yawning again he waves a hand toward the stairs, "Take a 
night of lodging on the house also. Though I don't knows ye I knows what 
ye are and I feel a kinship to ye even after I'd put up me sword all 
these years now."  As you are beginning to shake your head he interrupts: 
"Now don't ye argue with me, I may be older but I can still whip ye if I 
has to, now up to the room on the first right and get a nights sleep so 
you can be alert when ye go on to them dungeons."  Chuckling at the man's 
callous kindness you half-heartily wave and trudge to the second landing 
of the tavern and open your door.  Disrobing without finesse, you lay 
down on the straw mattress. 
	Sunlight streams in through the cracked shutter, dust motes 
traveling the rays to your bed where you lay with strewn blankets 
entwined about your legs.  With a groan you struggle to a sitting 
position, wiping your fog filled eyes with the back of your hand and 
idly wondering the time of the day.  Grunting, you push yourself off the 
bed, opening your hallway door to retrieve the customary morning wash 
basin.  Shivering, you clean thoroughly, thinking it may be a time before 
you're able to wash again, if ever.  Shaking away your dark thoughts you 
dress quickly, hoping that you have all that is needed. 	
	Walking slowly down the stairs you see the tavern has few 
customers, most eating, though a few nursing tankards.  The doors to the 
kitchen open, and out comes a middle aged wench laden with food, which 
she promptly distributes to the patrons at the tables. With a cracking, 
nasally voice she shrills: 
	"And what can I do YOU for?".  Her obvious dislike for you shows in 
her looks, though whether it is your appearance or the fact that you're 
a stranger, you do not know. In a slightly colder tone than you wished 
you ask for morning feast, and with a sniff she turns back to the 
kitchens. 
	"You mustn't mind Missy there, she's a good soul but sour."  you 
hear as you see the barkeep straddle a chair and beckon for you to do 
the same.  "So you still intent on continuing on this 'venture eh?" at 
your nod he smiles again, "Well then, before ye start the 'venturing I 
will give ye my name, ye never asked ye know!"  With a  flourish he 
stands and bows to you, "I am Delgan Roth, owner of this fine 
establishment, retired venture ..." a nasally voice calls from behind: 
	"And a big windbag!"  Looking you see Missy smiling and you cannot 
help but begin to laugh, Delgan himself joining your outburst. 
	"Well that may be, but I thinks I earned the rights to be a 
windbag.  As for you," he says, turning, " I will neither ask nor hear 
your name till you return here alive to tell your tales of the dungeon."
	With that you curiously look at him.  "And why not Delgan?" 
	"Because you have not yet earned your name. To me you will be known 
as 'Stranger' till you have earned your name, either through deeds or 
knowledge. That way I have nothing to mourn if you do not come back to 
tell your tales."  With that statement he looks a little abashed and 
quickly takes a parcel from his pocket, tossing it to you.  "Here.  That 
there is salve for healing.  I found it years ago and have not had the 
need to use it, and I figure that you yourself do not want to scar 
yourself as I have eh?"  He quickly gets up and lays a large hand on your 
shoulder, muttering "Venture well.", and leaving you to contemplate his 
actions.
	With  forced step you exit through the door you entered last night, 
wondering if it was hard to leave because of what you faced ahead or of 
what you were leaving behind. Walking, you weave your way down the road, 
looking at the town with an appraising eye now that you can see it in 
daylight, and liking it.  The farms surround you in an ordered fashion, 
rock walls seeming to spring from the ground to mark neat sections and 
rows.  Ahead of you the road weaves through the green hills.  The large 
elm trees are yet untouched by the oncoming fall, their leaves still 
large and green. 
	Over the hills in the distance you see a dark splotch upon the 
landscape, it could only be the Eldritch Forest.  Kergoth was said to 
have been a War Master of unmatched skills and unmatched evil.  To 
consort with devils and element lords.  To kill for no reason.  Only the 
combined might of several armies could defeat him and even then half of 
his fiendish army escaped, some returning to the Dungeons of Kergoth to 
harry the land again.  With a shiver you remind yourself it happened well 
over a hundred years ago, and that Kergoth was dead.  
	Tightening your hands upon your sword you begin walking toward the 
dark in the distant.  Five hours should find you at the border of the 
forest.  Another hour, if the track signs still remain, should find you 
at the ruins and the dungeon.  Not for the first time you fervently wish 
for a horse, wondering why life is so unfair.  Inwardly groaning you 
continue on, passing the thought around of Delgan Roth and his 
hospitality.  It is unusual in these days to find fairness and kindness 
in complete strangers, though you speculate that it stems mostly from you 
being a new adventurer.  Either way, your stay was a boon beyond your 
hopes.  The books alone gave you knowledge you had not possessed, but the 
solvent Delgan gifted you with and most importantly, Delgan himself were 
valuable. True friendship is rare and you promise yourself that you will 
make a name for yourself and return to tell your tale. You quicken your 
pace.  
	In front of you lies your destination, the land filled as far as 
you can see with the dark Eldritch forest.  The trees form a large canopy 
over everything, branches of different tree's starting where another 
leaves off.  A queer silence emanates from the dark.  A feeling of malice 
washes over you as if something watches. Hissing, your sword pulls free 
of the scabbard and you stand, watching and waiting for something to rush 
from the undergrowth.  Minutes pass by and the only thing you see is a 
large black squirrel tittering from branch to branch, pausing only long 
enough to chatter at you then bounding off into the forest.  Sighing, 
you decide to enter.  Looking above you see that you have a few more 
hours till darkness, which alone should be enough to find you to the 
ruins and entrance to the dungeons.  
	With your sword at ready, you tighten your pack straps and march 
into the forest.  Immediately the light dims.  The foliage overhead 
filters what little light does escape through to the leaf and rubble 
strewn ground.  Tight brambles clutch at your clothing as you pass 
twisted dark trees, the leaves seeming to be diseased or sickened.  
Nature itself seems to have been perverted by the evil that once lurked 
here, and still might. The thrashing of squirrels above diverts your 
attention long enough for you to stumble, barely catching yourself before 
you fall to the forest floor.  Angrily you kick the stone that tripped 
you, only to have your foot crunch into the moss covered rock.  Sickly 
you see that it is a not a rock, but a skull, and one that is definitly 
not human. 
	With a new eye you scan the surrounding area, seeing more skulls 
and full skeletons, all covered in moss and leaves.  What you thought was 
the crackling of leaves was actually the breaking of aged bones.  
Apparently there was a skirmish here at one time or another, the dead 
where they had fallen.  Gripping your sword tighter you move on, wincing 
every time you break another bone.  These bones, you hope, means that you 
are getting closer to the ruins.  Hopefully you will be there within the 
next half hour.  For another quarter  hour you walk on, peering into the 
dark hoping that nothing will disturb you, though getting desperate to 
find the ruins.  
	As you contemplate your next action a noise comes to your ears.   
Harsh guttural voices issue from your left, the language, clearly 
non-human.  Momentarily you freeze, thinking your life at an end; but 
regaining your senses you quickly scale a tree, hiding deep in the 
foliage.  Long minutes pass by in silence and you begin to think that 
once more you are alone, until you see a spear head emerge from the 
underbrush followed quickly by a squat green-skinned creature.  Course 
black hair pulled into a topknot reveals beady cautious eyes, the face 
tattooed in swirls of bright orange ink creating a fierce expression.  
The goblin, for it could be nothing other, is clothed in a overly large, 
blood stained tunic, a ragged hole sliced into the side. Bare feet make 
no noise as it comes into the small glen where you are hidden, its eyes 
scanning the leaf strewn ground before it. With a silent curse you see 
that he has noticed your tracks, his eyes curiously traveling the ground 
before him with his spear held level, walking toward the tree you are now 
hidden in.  As he walks towards your position you silently pull your 
dagger, praying the gods are with you as you launch yourself from the 
tree.  The goblin glances upward as your shadow crosses him, the dagger 
taking him full in the face.  With a grunt you push yourself off of the 
goblin, grabbing for your sword, only to notice that the creature is 
dead, your dagger protruding from his brow with dark blood covering it. 
	Turning, you crash through the bushes beside you, leaping a fallen 
limb and hurtling through the foliage to your right, leaving the corpse 
and your dagger behind for fear that your struggle was heard.  Within 
moments a strange hooting issues from behind you, the sound quickly being 
echoed behind you.  Several moments pass and the hooting still follows, 
with the crashing of undergrowth to spur you on.  As you run through a 
glen you throw a backward glance and spot two darting shapes in the 
undergrowth, drawing steadily nearer.  Awkwardly drawing your sword you 
swiftly turn and run at the nearest shape.  With a strangled start a 
goblin leaps from the growth, only to be skewered by your brand.  
Twisting, you pull it free just as a spear takes you across the back 
from a goblin rushing you from the side.  Swinging wildly you knock the 
spear from its hands.  Fear upon it's face, it rushes into the 
undergrowth, alluding your sword.  The crazed hooting begins again, 
though now it travels away from you. With a sigh you sheath your sword, 
thanking your luck that goblins are cowardly creatures and that more 
were not closer. 	Looking at the goblin you surprised, you see it too is 
tattooed, though in black ink.  Bending over to inspect the corpse you 
gasp and grab at your back, feeling the skin widely laid open across the 
ribs and spine, your tunic opened and bloody.  Gritting your teeth you 
quickly riffle the body and find nothing of use. 
	"By Devi's skull this hurts!" you splutter. How Delgan had accepted 
the pain from all his hurts begins to amaze you as you look to the 
darkening sky. With a painful lumber you trot away from the goblin, 
hoping others don't return to hunt you.  The dark is traveling fast, 
descending upon you a quarter hour later.  With weariness you look for a 
suitable camp, deciding to take your night beside a large boulder and 
brush sheltered tree. 	With practiced ease you scrape a fire pit and set 
dead wood to fire.  Looking to your pack you see a cut, your rolled 
pup-tent inside sliced clean through and stained with your blood.  Once 
again your luck has held, the pack taking most of the blade and leaving 
you alive, if worn.  Riffling your pack you bring out the salve gifted to 
you.  Opening the side of the package to find a white paste which smells 
odd though mildly pleasing. Setting it aside you pull your tunic off, the 
blood matting it to the wound and tearing your skin. Covering your 
fingers with the salve your uncomfortably massage it onto the wound, 
noticing that the salve is numbing your skin on both your back and hand.  
Blackly you think upon your failed search for the ruins, your lost 
dagger, and the cut upon your back. 
	"Not a good start ..." With a shiver you look into the night 
around you, the strained silence setting you to edge more than screaming 
howls would.  Wincing, you sit back against the tree, noticing absently 
the unusual projections of the dancing fire on the boulder across from 
you.  For a few more minutes you stare into the night then heave into 
your pack in search of supper. It is going to be a long night.  With a 
lurch, you start from the ground, cursing yourself for falling so deeply 
into to sleep. Wondering darkly how many creatures could have easily 
crept upon you in your sleep, you bend to retrieve your satchel only to 
start upright again, grabbing at your back.  There is no pain!  Quickly 
you pull your tunic up and run an apprehensive hand across the skin, only 
to find it unbroken. It is healed! With a whoop you tattoo a jig upon 
the ground, only to stop quickly and peer hurriedly about.  
	Grinning widely you grab your pack and turn to exit through the 
brushes only to once more receive a sight which surpasses the last.  The 
shadows which played upon the boulder last night were not only shadows.  
The boulder before you is worked with intricate symbols. Though weather 
worn they still showed clearly, though their meaning is lost to you.  
Grinning, you pat the rock fondly and step out of the camp to find 
yourself upon a bluff overlooking the ruins.  Eyes wide you snatch your 
blade from its scabbard, holding it before you as if to ward a blow, your 
fright written upon your features.  When you camped for the night the 
seemingly endless forest stretched before you, but now, as if magically 
appearing the ruins sprawl brokenly across the vine covered ground.  
Jagged, broken tower's reaching for the heavens as would a dying soul, 
are outlined against the pink morning light.  Crumbling, broken walls 
litter the ground, nature retaking its own. 
	With wide eyes you stare at the ruins before you, here you will 
find the dungeons, the way mapped out by explorers before you.  Your 
glory will be sung by all the bards in the land!  With a hesitant step 
you walk slowly down the bluff, your sword held at ready and your eyes 
darting to each shadow; seeking signs of occupation or trouble.  Ahead 
of you lies a single jutting tower, the rocks black and rough.  
	Winding your way through the rubble you loose sight of it for a 
moment, as you scramble over a broken wall a chill seizes chest and 
before you the earth churns and is thrown in the air with a rumble.  
Spitting and coughing, you wipe the dirt from your eyes and in horror 
find yourself staring wildly at a yellowed skeleton.  UN-DEAD!  With a 
hoarse cry you launch your sword at it, only to have it raise it's bony 
arm in defense.  With a crack, your sword cleaves the skeletal arm in 
twain, the skeleton not seeming to notice as it jerkily pulls it 
sharpened finger bones across your chest, leaving bloody furrows.  
Yelling, you turn and doggedly jump over the rubble you had moments ago 
crossed, fleeing the creature of bones and running wildly across the 
ruins.  With fear coursing your veins you see several more explosions of 
earth erupt about you and spew forth their skeletal remains.  Behind you 
the clack of bone against bone can be heard, wind howling through their 
empty sockets.  A ts about this story whether they are good or bad, just 
email me at taverntales@iquest.net

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Monthly Club Advertisements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
	As always, this section is always free for our members.  If you
wish to put an advertisement into the newsletter, feel free to email me
at cad@digital.net and I'll be sure to put it in next month's newsletter.
These must be sent to me sometime before the 25th of each month or they
will have to go into the month after.

Joe Hackett <jersey@internauts.ca>
Subject: Greyhawk

	Greyhawk Survivors: DM's, GM's, players, still active in the world 
of Greyhawk, I am forming a support group to bemoan the lack of support. 
I Would like to exchange ideas, progress, NPC's and the like with anyone 
still active in this gaming world.  Contact me at jersey@internauts.ca

Jeff Hazen <avedis@u.washington.edu>
Subject: Gaming Materials

	Is anyone in possession of the AD&D supplement _The Will and the 
Way_ that they would be willing to sell to me?  It seems that it's either 
out of print or the bookstores here have just stopped stocking it.  
Email me at avedis@u.washington.edu (or jhazen@linknet.kitsap.lib.wa.us 
if I don't respond within 24 hours).

Richard Tomasso <richt@bgs.com>
Subject: Earthdawn

	Hey Earthdawn fans! Do you have ideas/fiction/adventures/etc for 
the game?  Do you like to write and share your thoughts and ideas with 
others?  Then please consider joining _Legends_, the first and only 
Earthdawn APA.  For those who don't know, APA stands for Amateur Press 
Association.  It is a group of people who share a common interest (in 
this case Earthdawn) and write about it and share those writings with 
the other members of the APA. If you are interested check out the Legends 
web page at: http://www.tripod.com/~LegendsAPA

Daniel Demole <danield@digital.net>
Subject: IRC Game

	Hello All IRPS members.  If you're interested in playing a game 
via IRC please contact me at danield@digital.net with your experience 
and when you'll be able to play.

Bruno Diotte <ebd0739@deneb.ci.umoncton.ca> Subject: Books For Sale

	I have a selection of used RPG books to sell.  I have books from 
various RPG systems:  AD&D (1st and 2nd ed.), Rolemaster, Gamma world, 
Battletech, etc...)  All my books are approximately 50% off regular store 
prices.  The complete list (200+ items) can be found on the web at the 
following address:

http://www.administration.umoncton.ca/usagers/etudiant/brunod/index.html

	Or I can send you the list via email.  Also, the prices are in 
Canadian currency. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Gaming Conventions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jeremy Fowler-Lindemulder <jandk@brightok.net> 
Subject: DarkCon Press Release

     	DarkCon III is Oklahoma's largest gaming convention.  It will be 
held on July the 19-21, 1996 at the Central Plaza Inn, in Oklahoma City.  
Featuring events such as: R.P.G.A. Sanctioned Masters, Living City, 
Living Jungle, Decathlon, Teams, Benefit, and Star Wars.  Sanctioned 
Magic the Gathering Tournaments Types I, II, &  Sealed Deck.  Live Action 
Vampire run by the same people who do GEN-CON.  Warhammer 40K Demos, New 
Gaming system Pelicar "Fantasy Role Playing,"  Rifts, Axis & Allies 
Tourney, Johnny Reb, Naval Engagements, D.B.A., Chill, Heroes, Champions, 
Rage, Werewolf, Adventure Maximum, and many more.  Dice Games, Computer 
games, Live Action events, Artists, Discussion groups, Card Games, War 
Games, Board Games, and Role Playing Games Galore.  So much to do there 
is not enough time in the weekend to complete everything.
   	Cost for this convention is $10.00 till April 15th.  Then it's 
$15.00 till July.  $18.00 at the door.  All sanctioned gaming will have 
a cost of $1.00.  Everything else is free to the attending public.  The 
hotel room rate is $50.00 per night for four guests to a room.  $65.00 
per night in suites.  $5.00 per each additional guest.  For additional 
information, including rates for convention book advertisements, call, 
write, or Email:

     DarkCon III
     P.O. Box 6021
     Moore, Ok. 73160
     Telephone (405) 329-3302
     Email DBULLOCK@gslan.offsys.uoknor.edu
     WEB PAGE http://www.brightok.net/~jandk/DarkCon.html

Reserve your room now by contacting Central Plaza Inn at (405) 235-2761 
or write:

                     Central Plaza Inn
                     112 S. Martin Luther King
                      OKC. Ok. 73117

We also plan to have 20 computers to offer Doom, Heretic, Rise of Triad, 
Descent, and other related games like Sega and Ninetendo systems to offer 
the TV. buff a little entertainment.