Last year a friend of mine upgraded GirlFriend 1.0 to Wife 1.0 and found that 
it's a memory hog leaving very little system resources for other applications.
He is only now noticing that Wife 1.0 also is spawning Child-Processes which 
are further consuming valuable resources. No mention of this particular 
phenomena was included in the product brochure or the documentation, though 
other users have informed him that this is to be expected due to the nature 
of the application. Not only that, Wife 1.0 installs itself such that it is 
always launched at system initialization where it can monitor all other 
system activity. He's finding that some applications such as PokerNight 
10.3, BeerBash 2.5,  and PubNight 7.0 are no longer able to run in the 
system at all, crashing the system when selected (even though they always 
worked fine before).
   
At installation, Wife 1.0 provides no option as to the installation of 
undesired Plug-Ins such as MotherInLaw 55.8 and BrotherInLaw Beta release. 
Also, system performance seems to diminish with each passing day.
   
The features he'd like to see in the upcoming Wife 2.0 include:
   
-    A "Don't remind me again" button 
-    Minimize button
-    An install shield feature that allows Wife 2.0 to be installed with 
     the option to uninstall at any time without the loss of cache and
     other systemresources.
-    An option to run the network driver in promiscuous mode which would 
     allow the systems hardware probe feature to be much more useful.
   
I myself decided to avoid all of the headaches associated with Wife 1.0 by 
sticking with Girlfriend 2.0. Even here, however, I found many problems. 
Apparently you cannot install Girlfriend 2.0 on top of  Girlfriend 1.0.
You must uninstall Girlfriend 1.0 first. Other users say this is a long 
standing bug which I should have been aware of. Apparently the versions of 
Girlfriend have conflicts over shared use of  the  I/O port. You think they
would have fixed such a stupid bug by now. To make matters worse, the uninstall
program for Girlfriend 1.0 doesn't work very well leaving undesirable traces
of the application in the system.
Another thing that sucks -- all versions of Girlfriend continually pop-up 
little annoying messages about the advantages of upgrading to Wife 1.0
   
BUG WARNING
   
Wife 1.0 has an undocumented bug. If you try to install Mistress 1.1 before 
uninstalling Wife 1.0, Wife 1.0 will delete MSMoney files before doing the 
uninstall itself. Then Mistress 1.1 will refuse to install, claiming 
insufficient resources.
   
BUG WORK-AROUNDS
To avoid the above bug, try installing Mistress 1.1 on a different system 
and never run any file transfer applications such as LapLink 6.0. Also, 
beware of similar shareware applications that have been known to carry 
viruses that may affect Wife 1.0.
   
Another solution would be to run Mistress 1.0 via a UseNet provider under 
an anonymous name. Here again, beware of the viruses which can accidentally
be downloaded from the UseNet.

