Star Trek International - Membership Application Text Only Version - Revised Stardate: 39702.08

Star Trek International...These are the continuing voyages of the persons in Star Trek
International; their continuing mission to explore strange new worlds of fiction; create new
life and friendships; to boldly go where no fan has gone before...

Star Trek International is an international fan club, devoting its attention to the creation of
Gene Roddenberry: Star Trek. Star Trek International (STI) strives to promote the ideals and
beliefs of our creator, mentor, and friend in fandom, the Great Bird of the Galaxy. Yet at the
same time, we also promote Science Fiction fandom in general as a secondary theme and enjoy
hearing from our friends. The club started just over a decade ago as the USS Enterprise fully
sanctioned by Gene Roddenberry and eventually joined a parent organization and changed it's
name to the USS Centauri. Several years later, a few of the chapters within the  International
Federation of Trekkers (IFT) split from the group to form the International Trekkers Federation
(ITF) and started their own fan club with a true focus on the fans. Today, after twelve proud
years, a few name changes, and personnel shifts, STI is a stronger, more unified and cohesive
group of people devoted totally to the dream of Ge! ne Roddenberry, global peace...

Star Trek International's motto is "Freedom, Honor, & Unity," keeping this in mind, we strive
to promote a world of freedom for all humankind; brining honor to our homes, our nations, and
to humankind; and uniting all in a common cause - global peace. Star Trek International is made
up of chapters across the globe that allow the fan to explore his or her own world in the Star
Trek Universe. Right now, you have the chance to join the Flagship of the Fleet, or if you wish
to offer your services to the Fleet, a position on board Fleet Headquarters - Starbase 47.

The Fleet Flagship is the USS Jim Bridger NCC-79070, a Galaxy II Class Cruiser boldly exploring
the unknown regions of space. Starbase 47 was Star Trek International's first starbase before
it also became the Fleet Headquarters. It is an Paradise Class Starbase orbiting a lone planet
at the far reaches of Federation and Klingon space. The Fleet Flagship's Sister Ship, the USS
Altamont is an Nebula Class vessel proudly supporting the Jim Bridger whenever called upon, and
charting the nova's right along with the Jim Bridger.

The club business is carried out through our newsletter, a tri-annual publication sent to all
primary members of STI, called The Quest Beyond. Star Trek International dues are a flat and
simple $15.00 a year for one person(a primary membership) with each additional person only
costing $1.00(secondary membership). Please note however, that STI is open to everyone and if
the fee is a problem, contact the Fleet Admiral, something can be worked out. They will be
accepted with open arms as has been the policy. If you or your family or friends are
interested, please fill out the application below and either mail it to our Headquarters by US
Post, or email it to us via the Internet for a faster response.

Star Trek International - Fleet Headquarters c/o Fleet Operations Officer - STI PO BOX 0400
PERRYTON, TX 79070-0400 or via-email at: <shermday@pe-net.com>

Please list the following information for both the primary person and/or any secondary
person(s) who may wish to join STI.

Name:                                                           Age: Address:
Phone(Optional): City/State/Zip: E-Mail:
Birthdate: Sex:                                                            Membership Type:

Are you a member of another fan club, if so which one?

What's your rank and position? Please note that any person not cross affiliating with another
group will start at the entry level, Ensign Junior Grade.

How long have you held that rank and position?

If you are a member of Starfleet, Int'l or UFPI, what is your SCC #? Please note that this is
to aide is in our efforts to create a membership file for your records without creating random
numbers, but instead using ones that you are already familiar with.

Are you interested in any particular position within STI? What about a position on board the
USS Jim Bridger?

What services are you capable of providing? Can you offering webservices? Can you edit a
newsletter, or process information?

Please make all checks payable to S. Adam Day.

So Come And Join In And Be A Part Of The Fun And Excitement. Send in your membership
application today and be awarded a Commission in Star Trek International and take part in the
Star Trek Universe - Prosperity & Long Life

Fleet Admiral S. Adam Day - Fleet Commander - STI Commanding Officer - Starbase 47/USS Jim
Bridger

revised: 39702.08 revised: 39701.14 created: 29609.01
