THE ATRILIAN CAMPAIGN

A/ The setting
The Atrilian campaign is the "Southern" part of the Holobar campaign, a PBM
AD&D campaign which we've been playing for more than ten years in France
and in Italy.The "Northern" campaign is Mediaeval-Renaissance European 
flavoured, whereas the "Southern" campaign is Arabian Nights/African flavoured.

B/ The rules
Unlike a standard rpg, players in the Holobar campaign do not co-operate but take 
the roles of various leaders in the campaign world, like kings, princes, 
governors, viziers, emirs, sheikhs, sultans, wizards, priests, shamans, voodoo 
priests, necromancers, guildmasters, caravan masters, or even monsters.  They 
may co-operate, fight each other, build open or secret alliances, fund magical 
research, establish trading posts, wage wars, whatever.

C/ Player characters
PCs are not, of course, the standard AD&D PCs.
Instead of STR, INT, etc. ability scores, what determines the characters are:
* people/country
* kind of leader: temporal/spiritual/business/guild/underworld

The peoples of our campaign are:

1. The Gyptians. As their name implies, they're obviously drawn from real world
ancient Egyptians. Their main gods are Seth and Tiamat, whom they call Sobek.
Both are lawful evil. The Gyptian Empire is a huge one, occupying most of the
Northern portion of the continent Atrilia. Since our campaign is centred on
South Eastern Atrilia, however, they are not as powerful here as in the
North. They conquered a large portion of the land called Punt and garrisoned it 
heavily.

2. The Xolas. The Xolas were the native inhabitants of Punt prior to the
Gyptian conquest. They've been driven South and West into the desert and the 
savannah, becoming fierce nomads. Other Xolas fled on the tiny islands of the 
Zwazi Sea, becoming fishers.  The nomadic Xolas are broken into several warrying 
tribes. Each tribe is mounted on a different animal (zebra, antelope, rhino, 
etc.) which is its totem animal.  They hunt the other tribes' animals. Their 
religion is shamanistic.  The island Xolas worship various lawful gods, Ammon in 
particular (in our campaign, he's the father of all lawful gods, incl. Seth). 
Each island is an independent sultanate.  One Xola tribe remained in Punt after 
the Gyptian conquest: the tribe of the Camel (obviously camel riders). They are 
despised by the other Xolas, who label them as traitors.

3. The Pheacians. They are also a Northern people who are trying to conquer
lands in the rich South East. They come from the distant land of Pheacia
(inspired by real world Phenicia) and are the best sailors under the Sun.
Unlike the Gyptians who crossed the continent to reach Punt, the Pheacians
circumnavigated Atrilia and reached the Zwazi Sea where their cruelty and greed
made them an instant terror. Unlike the Gyptians, again, they did not chase the
ancient inhabitants in order to take their land. They prefer to exploit them.
Today, the Pheacians hold protectorates on several tiny Xola islands, they
occupy the island of Mafia, and they have established two colonies on the
island of Serendib. The Pheacians worship the Moon, Baal Hammon (their name for
Ammon), and Baal Hammer (the chaotic neutral god of the Sea).

4. The Meshuesh. They are the third Northern power involved in the politics of
the South East. Like the Pheacians, they arrived by sea. Unlike them, they are
not ruthless, which does not mean of course they do not exploit the
inhabitants.  Since the Meshuesh have a smaller fleet than the Pheacians, they 
control only some small islands, and they have only one colony on Serendib. The
Meshuesh have been lately becoming more and more fanatic in their worship
of Hammon (their name for Ammon), putting wizards and 'heathens' to death.

5. The Bandogo. The most civilised native people of the South East, the black
skinned Bandogo used to rule a huge empire covering all the lands of the
campaign. They have suffered many setbacks lately, and lost huge territories:
Punt, the Islands, and even the two cities where their civilisation was born
(which fell to chaotic hordes). However, the young omukama (king) Lalibea has
sworn to restore their power. The land of the Bandogo is called Dogobar. It is
the richest and most fertile land of all the South East, yet the omukama has
trouble raising the funds necessary to recover his lost empire. The Bandogo
worship all lawful gods. The state god is Obodah (their name for Ptah),
although he has neither cult nor priest.

6. The Bambole and the Ad'anti. These two black skinned people live among the
Bandogo; yet they have their own languages and their own laws. The Bambole
provide diviners and the Ad'anti provide horsemen warriors to the omukama.
Both peoples worship animal, nature and elemental gods.

7. The Githzerai. They were summoned by the Kleshites to fight the Bandogo
and remained on this plane. They occupy a small strip of arid land North
West of the Bandogo. Nobody likes 'em.

8. The Kleshites. They live in the jungles of the Utter South. They have
recently taken over two cities of the Bandogo. They worship Yig the serpent
god and Mother Earth. They have the most powerful shamans.

9. The Giff and the Saurials. These races come from other worlds. They were
summoned to fight against the Githyanki but failed. They help the armies of
the omukama.

D/ Playing procedure
ONCE A MONTH, each player states what his or her PC is doing:
* spending taxes
* collecting new taxes
* sending ambassadors/spies
* raising troops
        -- etc --

Actually, the sky's the limit. Anybody can do what he or she wants to. The
referee only decides what is possible or impossible to do.
We prefer improvisation over rules, hence the vagueness of this summary.
Then he or she receives via e-mail a campaign journal with the most recent
news. Of course, due to their location in the campaign, some players might
receive more news than others!

Gianni VACCA (aka MC Gianni)
Referee, the Atrilian campaign
vacca@velizy.inst.slb.com
