THE ATRILIAN CAMPAIGN E-JOURNAL
by MC Gianni
giannieanna@infonie.fr
Issue no 7, January 1997

Hello all
We are welcoming three new players to the Atrilian campaign.
James (Phoenix@metrolink.net) will be playing a Kleshite clan chieftain.
Jean-Louis (natsu@lac.gulliver.fr) will be playing Shm'é, the Ntemi (king) of 
the Bambole.
Rodolphe (rodolphe.rodrigues@lpma.u-psud.fr) will be playing Nero Bih Ad'Shitith, 
the Mwani (king) of the Ad'anti.

Also, the home page of the Atrilian campaign is going to move from its present 
URL to a new one.
It will still have the old features (rules, guidelines, etc.) but it will also be 
greatly improved, hosting:
* a full-colour map of the Atrilian continent * a page for each character/country
I hence invite each player to send me a short description of his character, of 
his country, whatever (for those who haven't already done so). You can also send 
me GIF or JPEG format piccies of your character; they'll appear on the page as well.

CAMPAIGN JOURNAL

Being a summary of the events which took place in SE Atrilia during the 2nd month 
of Shemu in the 1st year of Lalibêa's reign (2nd Shemu, 1 L).

1/ THE GITHZERAI PLATEAU
The nomadic warriors of the allied Xola tribes and 'the Nation', led by Sheikh 
Suppiluliuma of the Kwagga Xolas, are besieging another Githzerai tower. Strangely 
enough, they haven't met any resistance. The tower seems uninhabited.  The 
besiegers have received supplies from several rulers of neighbouring countries 
(Xola and Ndogo). Apparently, everyone wants to get rid of the invaders.

2/ THE RED COAST
Mercenary leader Maummar located the 'Hump' commando which had kidnapped Djyi, 
a prominent Gyptian merchant.  
A battled ensued between Maummar's Meshuesh unit and the Xola rebels (see 
previous issue).  The rebels were beaten by a bold manoeuvre, and fled. Using 
their superior knowledge of the area, they managed to leave the Meshuesh behind.
During their search in the labyrinthine gorges of the area, the mercenaries 
found the rebels' abandoned camp. Djyi's corpse lay there, his throat slit, and 
still warm.

3/ SOUTHERN PUNT
After their dispute about the treatment of the alleged Pheacian spy, a 'silly 
war' broke out between the Coastal Xolas and the Hammonite Meshuesh.  The latter 
claim it is all due to some strange madness that has come over Abú. The Hammonite 
Meshuesh fear it may be some sort of Pheacian sorcery.  They claim that they will 
not yield to Abú's "pathetic blackmail" (we're quoting) and that it is a 
judgement on him for his betrayal of his own faith.  The Hammonite Meshuesh said 
they would try to contact other Xola groups who may be hostile to Abú Djâfar.

On the 13th of 2nd Shemu, briefly after dawn, on a calm blue sea, a Xola ship 
sailing north from Southern Punt and Meshuesh galleys sailing south from the 
Dioscuride Islands spotted each other.

The Xola ship promptly turned and, taking advantage of its better rigging and 
lighter hull, sped away. She seemed to have lost her pursuers when a sudden, as 
if magical, wind suddenly propelled the Meshuesh galleys toward their prey.

As the three Meshuesh galleys neared their prey, a storm of insects suddenly 
appeared amongst the Xola sailors, stinging them and preventing them from 
manoeuvring out of the Meshuesh vessels' range.

That's when the Xola ship desperately approached one of the Meshuesh galleys in 
order to board it, but a barrier of blades appeared out of nothingness, 
preventing them from assaulting. A group of courageous Xolas hence leapt into 
the waters and started climbing aboard the Meshuesh vessel -- they were promptly 
flame stricken by a magician on the Meshuesh galley and fell screaming into the 
water.

By this time, one of the two other Meshuesh galleys had gotten near the two 
battling ships and boarded the Xola ship.

Surprisingly, the Xolas were a good match to the Meshuesh and were on the brink 
of defeating them, when the blade barrier disappeared, enabling the sailors from 
the first Meshuesh galley to board the Xola ship. At this time, the Xolas had no 
choice but to surrender.

The captured ship and the prisoners were then escorted to Búr Hammon.

When news of the naval defeat reached Abú Djâfar, he took several decrees.
1. People were asked to store food for protection, and were required to fortify 
all their houses and cities.
2. A body of volunteers was to be set up in order to "stop Meshuesh 
exploitation" because "it was time to strike back". (we're quoting) 
3. Pilgrims to Imám Suheil's shrine were also asked to form a body of fighters 
amongst them.
4. A magic school was to be founded, and magic-users to be hired from foreign 
countries.

4/ NORTHERN SERENDIB
The revolt in Qart 'Attíq has been put to rest by Al-Khardun's soldiers, but the 
city is now in ruins, all of its wooden buildings and fortifications having been 
burnt down by the fire set up by some die-hard rebels.

Only the governor's palace, a brick building, and the major stone temples are 
still standing.

The citizens of Qart 'Attíq are now homeless refugees. Most of them will try and 
settle further south on Serendíb; some of them want to found a new town on the 
coast of Dogobar or to get back to mainland Pheacia.

5/ UMBOLE
Shm'é has decided to create, in the very heart of the Mbole land, a sanctuary 
dedicated to the worship and the knowledge of the Mbole gods, which is to be 
called: the sanctuary of Dran'Ba.

This vast land (2500 Km2) will be bordered with some gods carvings. Some 
shrines will be erected in several places, where the Mbole should come to ask 
for some great favour.

Shm'é will then select 50 great warriors, 50 skilled craftmen, 10 scribes 
among the people who came to the Ntemi's Return Festival (see below).

Beeing chosen by the Ntemi is the greatest honour a man could achieve in 
Mbole society.

Shwa'Nga (Golden man), a Mbole diviner from the Dôgu college, is to create and 
lead the new Úmbole sanctuary. Shm'é has chosen him because of his uprightness, 
willpower and charisma. He will leave Dôgu as soon as possible.

Shm'é (currently residing in Dôgu at Lalibêa's court) informed Lalibêa that 
during 3rd Shemu, 1 L, he planned to move back to Úmbole in order to support 
his people.

Moreover, he ordered a great Return Festival be organised in Úmbole for his 
return there.

All the Mbole chieftains shall attend it.

During 3rd Akhet, 2 L, most of the Mbole diviners shall move back to Úmbole, 
since contacts with spirits are easier and stronger there than in Dôgu.

Shm'é also decreed that hospitality should prevail among the Bambole.

War is strictly forbidden for the common men, the only caste allowed to wage 
war are the Wa (royal warriors), who settle claims between rival tribes.

This kind of warfare is ritual, and seldom leads to death.

Embassies are allowed only if the Ntemi is in Dran'Ba, most often during the 
dry season, otherwise strangers are not allowed to enter the sacred forests 
of the Bambole, but in the border tribes hospitality should prevail until the 
council of spirits (M'Danga Do) gives or does not give a permission.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA ATRILIANA
This is the fifth in a series of regular instalments of encyclopaedic 
information about the continent of Atrilia.

*Mbole religion*

INTRODUCTION
The Bambole do not care about the other peoples' distinction between Lawful 
and Chaotic Gods.

Theirs have always been and shall always be, independently from the cosmic 
struggle between Law and Chaos which -- they presume -- shall never affect 
them.

The Bambole believe they and their land were created by their high god Niamye 
whereas other peoples were created by other gods; this is why they believe the 
defeat of either the Lawful or the Chaotic gods won't affect them.

MBOLE RELIGION
A. The Mbole Pantheon
Niamye the creator god
Álurwa god of air, and his wife Ásîse the scorpion goddess Mbotumbo the god 
of diviners

B. The Elemental Gods
Álurwa (god of air)
Áger (god of earth)
Sát'u (goddess of water)
Zaqme (goddess of fire)

C. Worship of the ancestors, the dead, and the Lwa (spirits) of the Kongo 
nation (there are three spirit nations, rival to each other)

MBOLE PRIESTHOOD
A. Priests of the Mbole Pantheon
Niamye, Álurwa, and Ásîse are worshipped but do not have any established priesthood.
Mbotumbo is the patron deity of the diviners, who are the Bambole's highest 
caste. The diviner combine shamanic and magical powers.

B. Priests of the Elemental Gods
These gods are feared more than they are worshipped.
Álurwa and Sát'u do not have any established priesthood.
Áger and Zaqme do have specialty priests who are shunned by the population and 
live as outcasts in the remotest areas of Úmbole.

C. Spirit worship
Shamans worship the ancestors and the Lwa, necromancers worship the dead.
Both are influent members of Mbole society (not as influent as diviners though), 
yet necromancers are greatly feared and usually must live in taboo areas where 
the dead are left by the tribe.


