THE ATRILIAN CAMPAIGN E-JOURNAL
by MC Gianni vacca@velizy.inst.slb.com
Issue no 1, February 1996

Hello all
This is the first issue of the Atrilian campaign e-journal. Each month, it will 
present an account of all the players' moves, as well as various rumours of 
what's going on in the campaign world.

Since this is a diplomatic/political intrigue campaign, I think one issue a month 
is a good rhythm. However, if the game needs it, there might be more than one 
issue a month in particular circumstances (esp. wars).

The players.
At the moment, there are 15 players involved. Their names follow, sorted by the 
peoples they play. E indicates an English-speaking player; F indicates a 
French-speaking player.

1/KINGDOM OF DOGOBAR
-- Andreas (F, E) plays the omukama (king) of Dogobar.
You can reach him at: +33 1 42 02 14 77 (phone number) -- Justin (E, F) plays 
	the court mage of Dogobar.
You can reach him at: bwhite@cln.etc.bc.ca (e-mail) 2/ GYPTOS

-- Renaud (F, E) plays the governor of the Gyptian city of Pi-Abet.
You can reach him at: +33 1 43 66 26 06 (phone number) -- Tom (E, F) plays the 
	governor of the Gyptian trading port of Shedet.
You can reach him at: bicycles@brutus.bright.net (e-mail) 3/ THE PHEACIANS

-- Francis (F) plays the admiral of the Pheacian fleet in SE Atrilia.
You can reach him at: +33 1 42 71 46 74 (phone number) -- Akilesh (E) plays the 
	Pheacian thieves guildmaster on the island of Serendib. 
You can reach him at: adep@loop.com (e-mail) 4/ THE MESHUESH

-- Christophe (F) plays the admiral of the Meshuesh fleet in SE Atrilia.
You can reach him at: +33 1 43 79 13 49 (phone number) 5/ THE XOLAS

-- Olivier (F, E) plays the Sheikh of the Kwagga tribe.
You can reach him at: +33 1 43 66 26 06 (phone number) -- Eric (F, E) plays the 
	Sheikh of the Awili tribe.
You can reach him at: eric_hamelin@itr.qc.ca (e-mail) -- Malcolm (E) plays the 
	Sheikh of the Ahirone tribe.
You can reach him at: malcolmc@ramlink.net (e-mail) -- Doug (E) plays the Sheikh 
	of the Hyena Sundjeni tribe.
You can reach him at: doug.stone@sympatico.ca (e-mail) 6/ KLESH

-- Eric (E, F) is joining to play a Kleshite ruler.
You can reach him at: eramsdell@mssm.lcs.k12.me.us (e-mail) 7/ THE GITHZERAI

-- Sunny (F, E) plays the Githzerai.
You can reach him at: sparis@ccr.jussieu.fr (e-mail) 8/ OTHER PEOPLES

-- Jordan (E) is joining to play the ruler of the dragon-men.
You can reach him at: esljbl@haven.ios.com (e-mail) 

-- Plus, there is one more 'secret' player.

Current threads.
1/ Battle for the control of the Babyo pass.
There was a battle for the control of the Babyo pass (located between Dogobar and 
former Ndogo lands that are now under Kleshite control). Fort Babyo, occupied by 
Ndogo troops, was stormed by Xola and Kleshite troops.

There was only one Ndogo survivor. The omukama sent a reinforcement army, but a 
truce was called. The Xola commander of the raiding troops, prince Nari ibn Aman, 
went to Dogu and held several (secret) talks with the omukama.

2/ The Githzerai plateau
The Githzerai (an extraplanar race) have been living on the plateaus above Dogobar 
for about five years. Since their arrival, the soil has become unfertile, and the 
rivers which flow from the plateaus into Dogobar ever shallower. Two Xola tribes, 
the Kwagga and the Awili, have united in order to drive the Githzerai out of this 
world. After some skirmishes, they are now besieging one of the five Githzerai 
towers.

3/ Serendib
Serendib is a huge island in the Sea of the Sirenes. Most of it is dense jungle, 
but the western coast is very fertile and settled by Meshuesh and Pheacian colonists. 
These used to be allies against the Bandogo, but since the destruction of the Ndogo 
fleet, tension has been growing between the former allies. The Pheacians have 
conquered a meshuesh town, and an arms race is in sight.

4/ Mafia
Mafia is an island north of Serendib. It used to be part of the kingdom of Dogobar 
but to-day it is Pheacian-controlled. Ethnically, the population is equally split 
between Ndogo and Xola fishermen. Lately, the Pheacians have incited the Xolas to 
harrass the Bandogo which, in turn, are now claiming Mafia should be returned to 
Dogobar.

PS For those for whom it might not be clear, the inhabitants of Dogobar are called 
the Bandogo. And the word 'Ndogo' pertains to all things from Dogobar.
