THE ATRILIAN CAMPAIGN E-JOURNAL
by MC Gianni vacca@velizy.inst.slb.com
Issue no 2, March 1996

Hello all
The Atrilian campaign has finally got the impetus it deserved. Thanks to
the Internet Role-Playing Society (IRPS) that I once again want to heartily
thank, I was able to present the Atrilian campaign on the Internet through
their 3W page.

This has attracted several new players, many of whom already play a major
role in the campaign.

Speaking of players, there's already been one casualty... the leader of the
Githzerai was killed in action in a battle against the Xolas. Sunny, who
was playing him, shall choose a new character, whereas Raul, a new player,
will probably play his successor.
Which brings me to a question several players have been keeping asking:
What stats do characters have?
Well, obviously, when there's a battle, I have to make up stats for the
characters. But as long as characters aren't directly involved, I prefer
setting aside the ROLL playing in favour of the ROLE playing.


New players.
Since the last time, we have welcome three new players:
-- Andreas Hedfors (Uh, another Andreas!) plays a Meshuesh pirate ruler of
the Pirate Islands off the coast of the Yellow Mountains.
You can reach him at: david.hedfors@mailbox.swipnet.se
-- Andrew Morris plays the Pheacian governor of the cities of Qart 'Attiq
and Qart Khadash on the island of Serendib
You can reach him at: amorris@origin.ea.com
-- Jay Kotliar plays the High Priest of the Eyes of Hammon sect.
You can reach him at: viomar@athens.net
-- Plus, there (still) is one more 'secret' player.

Follow-ups and new threads.
1/ Battle for the control of the Babyo pass.
An agreement has been reached between the Xola commander of the raiding
troops, prince Nari ibn Aman, and the omukama of Dogobar, His Majesty
Lalibea.
Ndaruga and Fort Babyo are to be temporarily put under the suzerainty of
prince Nari's father, Emir Aman.
Several vassals of Lalibea, esp. Yrac Tnarg, the emir of the Giff, and
Mosherai, the emir of Ngonem, were not content with the agreement.

2/ The Githzerai plateau
The Kwagga and Awili Xolas were besieging Mellin, one of the Githzerai
towers, when the Githzerai made a sudden aerial attack.
Several wizards flew over the Xola camp casting fire balls and stinking
clouds. This killed approximately 50 Xola soldiers and had all the mounts
fleeing. However, the sheikh of the Awilis, a mighty Janni, attacked the
leader of the Githzerai and killed him with one single thrust of his
scimitar.
All the surviving Githzerai retreated into Mellin, and the Janni disappeared.
Later, Xola shamans investigating the tower found that it was abandoned,
but the sheikh of the Awilis was not to be found.
As a result, half of the Awilis left the camp and returned to their lands.
This was compensated by the arrival of approximately 1,500 Ahirone Xolas to
take part in the holy war against those who defiled Mother Earth.

3/ Serendib
Much has been going on in the Pheacian colonies on Serendib. Admiral Yoram
left the government of Qart 'Attiq and Qart Khadash to a new governor from
Pheacia, so that he can concentrate on the problems of Mafia (see the
Atrilian Campaign e-journal, issue #1).
At the same time, there's been a steep increase in crime in both cities,
with unprecedented waves of murders and a discovery of new gambling
activities.

4/ The Red Coast
The usually peaceful Gyptian harbour of Shedet was attacked by (probably)
Meshuesh pirates, who looted its ship yard. Several tons of precious wood
are missing, as well as several Kushite soldiers who were defending the
ship yard.

A final note.
There is a very good interaction between myself, the referee, and several
players. However, I think there isn't much interaction between the players
themselves.
Of course, it would be unrealistic if everybody interacted with everybody
else, since most characters do not know each other or do not have the
physical means to send messages one to another.
Yet some players (especially those having Xola characters) are encouraged
to contact each other. That should make the campaign even more enjoyable.


