Date: Mon, 23 Dec 1996 16:44:20 +0100
X-Sender: vacca@velizy.inst.slb.com
To: mlp26745@pegasus.cc.ucf.edu
From: Gianni Vacca <vacca@velizy.inst.slb.com> Subject: the Atrilian campaign e-journal, issue #6 X-Status: 

THE ATRILIAN CAMPAIGN E-JOURNAL
by MC Gianni
giannieanna@infonie.fr
Issue no 6, December 1996

Hello all
As usual, this issue is late because of unexpected working overload. I really hope I'll 
be able to maintain a monthly newsletter next year (take this as my new year's 
resolution).

Three players quit playing: Doug (Sheikh of the Hyena Sundjeni Xolas) and Justin (Court 
mage of Dogobar) just stopped answering to my mails, whereas Andrew (Governor Benba 
al-Khardun of Qart 'Attíq and Qart Khadash) hasn't any access to the internet any longer.

CAMPAIGN JOURNAL

Being a summary of the events which took place in SE Atrilia during the 1st month of 
Shemu in the 1st year of Lalibêa's reign (Ndogo reckoning).

1/ THE GITHZERAI PLATEAU
The nomadic warriors of the allied Xola tribes and 'the Nation' have moved their camp 
toward another Githzerai tower after having colmpletely destroyed Mellin, the tower 
they took over two months ago. Their goal is to capture and destroy all Githzerai 
towers in SE Atrilia.

2/ THE RED COAST
The 'Hump' commando which allegedly attacked a Gyptian caravan coming from Gyptos 
and kidnapped a prominent Gyptian merchant has been located by a Meshuesh mercenary 
unit commanded by the Meshuesh mercenary leader Maummar.

The two units met in the dry valleys between the Gyptian settlements and the lands 
of the Coastal Xolas. After initial volleys of long-distance weapons, the Meshuesh 
and the rebels closed in.

Under the cover of the returning missile fire, the rebels closed in by a two-pronged 
attack, outflanking the Meshuesh both on the right and the left flank.

When the outnumbered Meshuesh seemed to be on the verge of routing, however, 
reinforcements appeared at both sides -- they had been waiting hidden behind the dry 
hills of the site.

3/ SOUTHERN PUNT
The Meshuesh troops stationed in the harbour released the Xola alchemist they had 
arrested. The man had been heavily beaten up and tortured but was still alive.

The Meshuesh agreed to transform their military headquarters into a peaceful trading 
outpost.

4/ YET ANOTHER 'SLAYER' ATTACK
The island of Mâfia was attacked once again by the self-styled 'Slayers'.

Two small galleys landed 100 ferocious warriors onto Mâfia's shores. The fighters 
attacked the Pheacian settlement of Dar al-Hamra, but were met by wary Pheacian 
soldiers and native militias. After a brief clash which left about 20 locals and 
10 invaders dead, the attackers fled.

The 'Slayers' (who always left notes claiming they were Pheacian cultists of Baal 
Himmer) are actually Meshuesh cultists of Hammon from an isolated island in the 
north, prisoners said.

5/ REVOLT IN QART 'ATTIQ
Governor Benba al-Khardun, besieged in his palace with 100 loyal guards, ordered 
his elite troops should attack. The men bravely faced the 150 armed-ruffians of 
the populace, while 50 soldiers from the temple made a surprise attack on the 
demonstratots which were setting up the catapults.

Later, troops which had disembarked from the Pheacian galleys dispatched to 
Serendíb entered the city by secret tunnels and came to the rescue of the elite 
soldiers from the governor's palace. The populace soon disbanded.

However, a small group of die-hard rebels put on fires at various places before 
leaving the city. At the moment, the city (mostly wooden buildings) is burning in 
a huge inferno.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA ATRILIANA
This is the fourth in a series of regular instalments of encyclopaedic information 
about the continent of Atrilia.

*Meshuesh religion*

INTRODUCTION
Before events of which more shall be said here, the Meshuesh used to have a very 
distinct pantheon, as they worshipped the Ant Goddess, the desert idols, and the 
Elemental Gods.

About 3 or 4 centuries ago, a Meshuesh merchant living in Sau (Northern Gyptos) had 
a revelation as he walked past a temple of Amun-Ra -- this revelation is called "the 
Illumination" by the Meshuesh.

The merchant took on the name 'Abdammon ('slave of Ammon': Ammon or Hammon is the 
Meshuesh name of Amun) and started spreading the worship of Amun and the Lawful 
Gods amongst the Meshuesh.

As a consequence, the Meshuesh are today split between 'those who received the 
Illumination' (called the Insan) and 'those who did not'. Their co-existence is 
generally peaceful because only some bedouin tribes and some sultans follow the 
tenets of Holy War preached by 'Abdammon, the First Caliph, in order to spread 
the Illumination. These zealots are called the Mujahedin ('holy warriors' in 
Meshuesh) -- see below.

THE MESHUESH PANTHEON
A. Traditional Gods
--the Ant Goddess
--the Gurzil (stone idols)
--the Elemental Gods
B. Lawful Gods
--Ammon or Hammon (chief god of the Lawful pantheon) --Zazél (father of the gods)
--Ash (defender of the gods)
--Amqran (crocodile god)
--Shams (goddess of the Sun)
--Sâd (warrior god)
C. Foreign Gods
--War Ism (cat goddess)
--Abúfihâmat (Baphomet)
--'Arush (merchants' god)

MESHUESH PRIESTS
A. Priests of the Traditional Gods
These priests are close to nature and to the Meshuesh ancestors. They are similar to 
the classic AD&D druid or the Al-Qadim kahina, and to the Al-Qadim mystic.
B. Priests of the Lawful Gods
The Meshuesh priests of the Lawful gods always speak in the name of Hammon first, the 
other Lawful gods being considered as his stewarts. The Meshuesh lawful priests are 
hence not divided according to whom they worship, but according to their behaviour 
vis-a-vis the Holy War.
1) The most fanatical are called the Mujahedin. They wage a tireless war against not 
only the ancient cults (eg the Ant Goddess) but also the foreign gods (eg 'Arush). 
They are similar to the Al-Qadim moralist priests.
2) The Henotheists are more tolerant with regard to non-Insan, but acknowledge the 
importance of the Holy War in some cases. Yet they prefer a peaceful but insistent 
proselytism. They are similar to the Al-Qadim ethoist priests.
3) The Polytheists are against violence and preach the peaceful co-existence of 
all Meshuesh cults... they believe the Lawful Gods are but an aspect of the Meshuesh 
pantheon. They are similar to the Al-Qadim pragmatist priests.
C. Priests of the Foreign Gods
These priests are very specialised in their own particular fields.
Priestesses of War Ism, for instance, are concerned with all things feline, but are 
not interested in the epic struggle between Law and Chaos... These priests are 
specialty priests as per the standard AD&D rules.


