THE ATRILIAN CAMPAIGN E-JOURNAL
by MC Gianni
giannieanna@infonie.fr
Issue no 4, July 1996

Being a summary of the events which took place in SE Atrilia during the 1st
and the 2nd months of Peret in the 1st year of Lalibea's reign (Ndogo
reckoning).

Hello all
Something special has happened in my RW campaign: I got married! The
wedding took place on 21 June, hence I couldn't devote much time to the
Atrilian campaign in June. This is why this issue is, again, a little late.
This had little incidence on the campaign itself, however, since many
players seem to have got into a dormant state.
I shall repeat it again and again, but this is YOUR campaign. You shouldn't
wait for me to create random events in order to stir up some response.
YOU must act in order to get the game going.

At the moment, there are only 8 active players out of 20 players:
1. Andreas Hedfors/Mirennian ash-Shorill
2. Eric Ramsdell/Mosherai
3. Jay Kotliar/Khalil al-Daresh
4. John Rowe/Maummar
5. Jordan/Teklis
6. Olivier Dubreuil/Suppiluliuma
7. Ruud Overbeek/Abu Djafar
8. Tom Slattery/Sebekemhat

I'd like everyone to try and be more active, for the sake of the campaign
and your own enjoyment! ;)
---I'd especially like Steven to reply to my last message. As the Pheacian
admiral, you play a major role. I  _really_ need your reply!---

1/ THE GITHZERAI PLATEAU
The Xolas and the unheard-of nomadic tribe called "the Nation" have
established a camp near the destroyed Githzerai tower, Mellin.
On the 10th day of the 2nd month of Peret, the camp was just going to be
attacked by invisible, flying white-skin sorcerers (seems to be their
favourite battle tactics) when something alerted the natives in some way,
because they managed to scatter moments before the attack, reducing its
effectiveness. The White-Skins cast some fire balls and stinking clouds,
then left.
The total toll was about 40 dead.
Hadn't the nomads been alerted, the number of casualties would've been much
larger.

2/ THE RIVER PANGANI
The water of the river has become salty to the point that it has become
unsuitable for irrigating and drinking.
As a consequence, famine and drought have stricken this farming region.
Starving people are leaving the countryside and are flocking to the cities
and towns by the sea.
However, the recent increase in the numbers of salt-water crocodiles
entering the river from the sea has hindered the fishermen in their work.
As a result, food is getting scarce in all the Pangani region.

3/ MAFIA
The ethnic strife between the island's Xolas (armed by the Pheacian
military government of Admiral Yoram) and Bandogo has abated.
Rumour has it Admiral Yoram and the Omukama are discussing an agreement
between Pheacia and Dogobar which would bring peace to the Sea of the
Sirens.

4/ THE RED COAST
An unknown ship was spotted in the waters near Shedet (see the previous issue).
The ship was surrounded by Gyptian vessels; the intruders claimed they had
nothing to do with the attack against the Gyptian shipyard in Shedet. The
ship was escorted back to the north whence she claimed she hailed.
However, the ship managed to evade her Gyptian convoy in the labyrinthine
waters of the Pirate Islands.

5/ PUNT
The peaceful Xolas living on the southern coast of Punt have started
building a large harbour near their villages.
Imam Abu Djafar says the harbour is being built with a peaceful intent.

6/ SECT STRIKES ANEW
The new sect called 'the Slayers' which has recently attacked Bur Hammon
and Bur al-Saadat (during the 1st month of Peret) struck again.
On the night between the 3rd and the 4th days of the 2nd month of Peret,
'Slayer' raiders desecrated Pheacian temples in Dar al-Hamra, the largest
Pheacian settlement on Mafia.

ENCYCLOPAEDIA ATRILIANA
This is the second in a series of regular instalments of encyclopaedic
information about the continent of Atrilia.

*The Gods of the Pheacians*

The Pheacians are an independent-minded, courageous people from Northern
Atrilia. They live in a very small mountainous country by the sea, Pheacia,
which is located between two much larger countries, Istan (to the west) and
Haran (to the east). Despite their small numbers, the Pheacians rule the
waves and have established a strong presence in South-eastern Atrilia,
especially on the island of Serendíb.
The Pheacians worship a number of gods in a loose pantheon. However, since
Pheacia is not a united country (it is divided into three city-states:
Hiram, Maité and Aradus), Pheacians tend to worship their local gods over
the national ones.

Major gods
Baal Hammer; god of the sea, navigation, sailors; also local god of Hiram
Baal Hammon; father and king of the gods, god of the sky
Baal Qarnaim; grandfather of the gods, god of light
Baalat Tanít; goddess of marriage, protection, the moon; also national
goddess of Pheacia

Intermediate gods
Melk Qart; god of the morning sun; protector of sea travellers
Eshmun; god of wine, merriment, fertility; protector of land travellers;
also local god of Aradus
A'nat; queen of the gods; goddess of revenge

Minor gods
Adón; god of beauty, spring, vegetation
Ashtaret; goddess of love and pleasure; also local goddess of Maité
Baal Refa'ím; god of evil giants
Réshef; god of thunder and lightning; popular amongst colonists
Sakun; god of writing, scribes, knowledge

The priests
Priests in Pheacian society have a lesser role than in Gyptian or even
Meshuesh society. They just perform coming-of-age, marriage and funerary
rites.
There are, however, two peculiar cults playing a less negligible role:
1) The priesthood of Ashtaret maintains sacred brothels all over Pheacian lands.
2) Specialty priests of Baal Hammer often accompany Pheacian galleys on
long voyages.